# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety:** Road safety is a big concern in Côte d’Ivoire. U.S. Embassy officers are banned from driving outside of major cities after dark. This includes driving between Abidjan, Grand Bassam, and Assinie. Visibility is often poor, even in developed areas with streetlights. Crashes happen often on roads between major cities. They involve big commercial or private vehicles. It is common to see overturned or broken-down vehicles that may block routes and create traffic congestion. Cargo transport vehicles are often overloaded and do not follow standard safety practices.

The Embassy can provide consular services outside of the Abidjan area. But, its ability to do so is limited. This includes emergency aid. U.S. government personnel are prohibited from traveling to the Northern and Northeastern border region. Many areas of Côte d’Ivoire are difficult to access, and travel in these areas is hazardous. Outside of the major cities, infrastructure is poor, medical care is limited, and there are few facilities for tourists.

Carjacking incidents have been reported in Abidjan, including vehicles with diplomatic plates. While stopped in traffic, allow enough room between your car and the one in front to maneuver out if needed. Before getting into your car, look around to see if anyone is paying unusual attention. If someone appears to be watching, do not go to your vehicle. If confronted, remain courteous and calm and, if threatened with violence, in most cases do not resist. Street criminals often employ threats of violent tactics when accosting their victims. When victims hand over their valuables, the encounter normally ends without further incident or harm. But, street criminals have been known to act on violent threats. They do so when victims resist handing over their things. Please report any incident to the U.S. Embassy.

**Traffic Laws:** Authorities rarely enforce traffic laws. The patrol presence of Ivoirian security forces on roadways outside of the capital at night is limited or non-existent. Still, police checkpoints are common on major roads throughout the country. They often increase after security incidents. There are many police roadblocks on the major routes outside of Abidjan. They may be permanent or informal. At these roadblocks, officers allegedly pressure travelers for bribes.

Drivers should know that using a cell phone while driving and not wearing a seatbelt are against the law. They usually result in an immediate fine. Persons cited for a traffic violation should request a receipt for any items confiscated or fines paid. It is legal to pay fines to police officers on the side of the road for small speeding violations not to exceed 2000 CFA (approximately US $4). The amount should be clearly printed on the ticket. Some traffic violations (driving without insurance) may result in driver detention.

If you are in an accident, call police. If you believe the situation might become hostile, call or travel to the nearest police or gendarme’s station. Impatient drivers frequently disregard traffic laws and drive recklessly. Cars and trucks frequently travel without functioning headlights.

**Public Transportation:** Abidjan has a poor public transportation system. If you choose to travel by bus, the “Express” line is believed to be the safest and most reliable service. Taxis are readily available and inexpensive; you may be able to negotiate a better rate than drivers’ initial fare offers. They are, however, poorly maintained and notorious for not respecting the rules of the road. There have been reports of robberies in metered or orange taxis. But, people still widely think they are the safest public transport.

Communal taxis (“woro-woros”), used only within the limits of each commune, are not metered and may be dangerous. Do not use communal taxis or local vans (“Gbaka”) because they are frequently involved in accidents. Always travel in groups and avoid driving on roads outside of Abidjan at night.

Ride-share applications are available in parts of Côte d’Ivoire, including Uber, Yango, and Heetch. Ride-share services allow a rider to input the origin and destination addresses, and the driver can use the in-app GPS. They have different service levels (e.g. economy, comfort, UberXL). The higher tiers have modern vehicles and air conditioning. These services are good for travelers with limited French. They are often safer than hailing street taxis, because the app verifies the driver.

See our [Road Safety page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/driving-and-road-safety.html) for more information. Visit the websites of [Côte d’Ivoire’s Ministry of Tourism](https://tourismecotedivoire.ci/)and [Ministry of Transportation](https://guce.gouv.ci/).

**Oversight of Aviation Safety:** Direct commercial air services go to the United States. They are operated by carriers registered outside of Côte d’Ivoire. But, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has not yet assessed Côte d’Ivoire’s Civil Aviation Authority. The assessment would be for compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety standards. Further information may be found on the [FAA’s safety assessment page.](https://www.faa.gov/about/initiatives/iasa)

**Maritime Travel:** Mariners planning travel to Côte d’Ivoire should check for [U.S. maritime advisories and alerts.](https://www.maritime.dot.gov/msci-advisories) Piracy, armed robbery, and kidnapping for ransom threaten U.S. flagged vessels in the Gulf of Guinea. They also threaten U.S. mariners on a vessel or traveling to or from a vessel in the Gulf of Guinea. Information may also be posted to the [U.S. Coast Guard homeport website](https://www.dco.uscg.mil/Our-Organization/Assistant-Commandant-for-Prevention-Policy-CG-5P/Port-and-Facility-Compliance-CG-FAC/Homeport-20/) and the [NGA broadcast warnings.](https://msi.nga.mil/NavWarnings)