# Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements

[#### Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements](javascript:void(0); "Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements")

\*\*\* **Due to technical issues on the Mozambican e-visa website, U.S. citizen travelers wishing to obtain a visitor visa are advised to follow the guidance below related to tourism and business travelers until further notice. Please note an invitation letter is still required.\*\*\***

* U.S. citizens wishing to enter Mozambique for the purposes of tourism or business are not required to obtain a visa at this time. Entry requirements are determined by the traveler’s length of stay which is decided by immigration officials at the time of visa issuance. Trips spanning more than 30 days likely will require the receipt of an approval to remain extension from the provincial Direcção Nacional De Migração closest to the traveler. Administrative fees may apply. Tourist and business travelers are required to show proof of a round-trip flight and hotel reservation. These travelers may stay **no more than 90 days (consecutive or interrupted) in a year**. Travelers are eligible for tourist visas **only if** they do not intend to reside with a citizen or resident of Mozambique during their stay in the country. Due to the absence of a physical visa in travelers’ passports, the Direcção Nacional De Migração encourages travelers under this category to retain their receipt as proof of payment while in Mozambique. Tourist and business travelers from countries not eligible for visa exemption must apply for a visa using the electronic visa (e-visa) platform.
* Travelers intending to reside with a citizen or resident of Mozambique during their stay in the country must obtain a visitor visa. Pre-approval for visitor visas can be obtained via the e-visa platform. Travelers must submit a notarized letter of support from their host as well as proof of the host’s status in Mozambique (i.e., valid visa, foreign residency document known as a DIRE, or passport) with the application. Visitor visa pre-approvals are located under the “Border Visa” section of the e-visa platform.
* Visa pre-authorizations are accessed via the e-visa platform ([https://evisa.gov.mz/](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fevisa.gov.mz%2F&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C23840c62a8db474b80e308db57106829%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638199500193557140%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=7XrD4jVxEKE2mfos5u%2B3NgJPCIHhibzfUzgU%2B6PlBTA%3D&reserved=0)). In addition to tourist, business, and visitor visa pre-approvals, the site also provides pre-approvals for those engaging in crew member travel, humanitarian assistance efforts, sports and cultural activity participation, and investment.
* Pre-approvals are not guaranteed visas, travelers must be sure to travel with all requirements related to their visa category for official review and acceptance at the time of arrival to Mozambique.
* In the case of diplomatic, courtesy, official, transit, student, work, temporary residency, and residential visas, the Mozambican government requires travelers to obtain visas from their nearest embassy or consulate before arriving at Mozambican borders. Those wishing to obtain a visa instead of a pre-authorization prior to arrival in Mozambique can apply for visas at their nearest embassy or consulate.
* Travelers 18 years and below traveling with one parent or unaccompanied must obtain a parental consent for the absent parent(s). The document must be notarized and in written in Portuguese. For additional assistance with this requirement, please contact: [MaputoUSCitizens@state.gov](mailto:maputoUSCitizens@state.gov).
* All travelers to Mozambique must be in possession of a **passport at least six months validity after arrival** that contains **least two clean (unstamped) visa pages** each time entry is sought. This does not include endorsement pages.
* Please pay attention to the authorized period of stay on your visa ("*Autorizado a permaneçer pelo período de* [number of days]"). This is the maximum number of days you may remain in the country before you **must** depart Mozambique. This is distinct from the validity of the visa which indicates when you may enter Mozambique.
* Travelers not in possession of a valid visa **will be fined**for each day they illegally reside in Mozambique. Trips spanning more than 30 days likely will require the receipt of an approval to remain extension from the provincial Direcção Nacional De Migração closest to the traveler. Administrative fees may apply.
* All travelers except those traveling on diplomatic, courtesy, and official visas have associated fees. Visa-related fees are assessed and paid **only** at the following locations: embassies or consulates, local immigration offices once in Mozambique, and ports of entry (i.e., air, land, and sea borders). Fees are payable by credit card and local currency. Currency exchange options may be available at larger ports of entry for those not in possession of a credit card or local currency. **Fee payment is not requested online**.
* Travelers have 60 days from the date of visa issuance to use their visa. Unused visas will expire after the 60th day.
* Please also visit the [Embassy of the Republic of Mozambique’s website](https://usa.embamoc.gov.mz/?page_id=99) to review entry and exit requirements. Visa queries can be directed to the Mozambican Embassy of Mozambique located at 1525 New Hampshire Ave NW, Washington, DC 20036 or by phone at (202) 293-7146 between the hours of 3-5 p.m. or online at [Portal eVisa de Moçambique](https://evisa.gov.mz/).
* Travel to Mozambique often requires transit through South Africa. If traveling with minors, please visit the South African [Department of Home Affairs website](http://www.dha.gov.za/) for the most up-to-date requirements as the requirements can change without notice.

**Vaccinations:**

* A valid certification of vaccination for Yellow Fever is required if you are coming from a country where Yellow Fever is present.
* Border authorities can require all travelers to present a yellow vaccination books.  See the [CDC website](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhivtb/where-we-work/mozambique/mozambique.html "CDC-Mozambique") for further information on suggested vaccinations for travel to Mozambique.
* If you cannot present a certificate at the port of entry, you will be vaccinated at your own expense.
* The U.S. Department of State is unaware of any HIV/AIDS entry restrictions for visitors to or foreign residents of Mozambique. Find information on [dual nationality](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/Dual-Nationality-Travelers.html "Dual Nationality"), [prevention of international child abduction](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/International-Parental-Child-Abduction/prevention.html "Prevention") and [customs regulations](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/customs-and-import.html "Customs and Import Restrictions") on our websites.