# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety:** Exercise caution if driving in Syria because road conditions are hazardous.

Visitors may encounter hostile activity, harassment, or even abduction at both official and unofficial security checkpoints on roads throughout the country. Although drivers generally follow traffic signs and signals in urban centers, they maneuver aggressively and show little regard for vehicles traveling near them. Lane markings are usually ignored.  Unlike in the United States, vehicles within Syrian traffic circles must give way to entering traffic. At night, it is very difficult to see pedestrians, who often walk into traffic with little warning.  Outside major cities, it is common to find pedestrians, animals, and vehicles on unlit roads at night.

Pedestrians should exercise caution. Parked cars, deteriorating pavement, and guard posts obstruct sidewalks, often forcing pedestrians to walk in the street.  Vehicles often do not stop for pedestrians and regularly run red lights or “jump” the green light well before it changes.  Drivers and passengers are subject to demands for money, harassment, and abduction throughout the country.  Rule of law, including traffic laws, and law enforcement is absent in many areas of the country.

See our [Road Safety page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/driving-and-road-safety.html) for more information.

**Aviation Safety Oversight:**The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has not assessed Syria’s Civil Aviation Authority for compliance with international standards for aviation safety oversight. FAA’s [website](https://www.faa.gov/about/initiatives/iasa) includes more information on its assessment program.

Because of the risks to civil aviation operating within or in the vicinity of Syria, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has issued a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) and a Special Federal Aviation Regulation (SFAR) that prohibit U.S. flights from flying within Syrian airspace and advises caution for flights operating within 200 nautical miles.

U.S. citizens should consult the [Federal Aviation Administration's Prohibitions, Restrictions, and Notices](https://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/publications/us_restrictions/) for more information.

**Maritime Travel:** Mariners and passengers planning travel to Syria should check for U.S. [Maritime Advisories and Alerts](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.maritime.dot.gov%2Fmsci-advisories&data=05%7C02%7CKramerLM%40state.gov%7C85739bcf877140e1c26308dd6af6a570%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638784329743831836%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=hXPZxDQITtfWb7%2B8Q5iIA0fqejoKXwYab5ASyie6bKc%3D&reserved=0). The [NGA Navigational Warnings](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmsi.nga.mil%2FNavWarnings&data=05%7C02%7CKramerLM%40state.gov%7C85739bcf877140e1c26308dd6af6a570%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638784329743871349%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=GjN8TWA%2FquFD6AQ2g15ydwTRmalU%2F7jx%2BVJpY6Y0s%2Bs%3D&reserved=0)website may also provide relevant information.

The U.S. Coast Guard determined Syrian ports do not have effective anti-terrorism measures.  Vessels that arrive in U.S. ports from Syrian ports must meet additional U.S. Coast Guard conditions of entry as described in the current Port Security Advisory, [International Port Security Program - Port Security Advisory](https://www.dco.uscg.mil/Our-Organization/Assistant-Commandant-for-Prevention-Policy-CG-5P/Inspections-Compliance-CG-5PC-/International-Domestic-Port-Assessment/International-Port-Security-Program-Port-Security-Advisory/). Mariners and passengers traveling through Syrian ports should exercise caution and implement enhanced security measures.