# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:**  You are subject to all Vietnamese laws. If you violate local laws, even unknowingly, you may be expelled, arrested, or imprisoned.  Individuals establishing a business or practicing a profession that requires additional permits or licensing should seek information from the competent local authorities prior to practicing or operating a business. Penalties for possessing, using, or trafficking in illegal drugs in Vietnam are severe, and convicted offenders can expect long jail sentences and heavy fines, or even the death penalty. Police periodically raid nightlife establishments suspected of engaging in the drug trade and during these raids will subject all patrons present to drug testing at the police station. A positive result, regardless of whether drugs were consumed in Vietnam or before entry, may result in criminal charges.

In Vietnam, you may be taken in for questioning if you do not have proper ID, such as a passport or a copy of your visa. Driving under the influence of alcohol resulting in a fatal accident could lead to immediate imprisonment. If you break local laws in Vietnam, your U.S. passport *will not* help you avoid arrest or prosecution. Note that the Vietnamese legal system allows for lengthy criminal investigation periods that can lead to prolonged pre-trial detention; some investigations can last years without any explanation.

Furthermore, some laws are also prosecutable in the United States, regardless of local law. You can be [prosecuted in the United States](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention.html) for engaging in sexual conduct with children or for using or disseminating child pornography in a foreign country regardless of the legality of these activities under the host country’s laws.

**Arrest Notification in Vietnam:**  If you are arrested or detained, ask police or prison officials to notify the U.S. Embassy or Consulate General immediately. The Government of Vietnam regularly fails to notify the Embassy or Consulate General of the arrest of a U.S. citizen in a timely fashion and may delay consular access to prisoners for several weeks.

**Counterfeit and Pirated Goods:** Although counterfeit and pirated goods are prevalent in many countries, they may still be illegal according to local laws. You may also pay fines or forfeit them upon return to the United States. See the [U.S. Department of Justice website](https://www.justice.gov/) for more information.

**Gambling:** Gambling is highly regulated by the government and persons or businesses running games or gambling halls are required to be licensed. The Government of Vietnam pursues cases of running or playing in unlicensed games aggressively. There are currently U.S. citizens serving jail sentences of three to five years because of illegal gambling.

**Dual Nationality:**Dual nationality is accepted by the Vietnamese government in some, but not all, circumstances. However, dual nationals should be aware that Vietnam recognizes their Vietnamese citizenship as primary before others. In such cases, the U.S. Embassy and Consulate General may be limited in the consular services we are able to provide. Furthermore, authorities may delay or refuse to notify the Embassy or Consulate General when arresting a dual national U.S./ Vietnam citizen. U.S. citizens who also hold Vietnamese citizenship and are currently residing in Vietnam may wish to contact local authorities and/or seek competent legal advice on how local laws may affect their status. For detailed information on Vietnamese nationality law and other legal issues visit the [Embassy of Vietnam website](https://vn.usembassy.gov/).

**Work Authorization:** The Government of Vietnam maintains strict laws with respect to foreign workers. U.S. citizens planning to work in Vietnam should make sure that they are in full compliance with Vietnamese regulations. Penalties can be severe and include deportation, fines, or detention. Vietnam immigration law allows for companies sponsoring foreign employees to exercise full control over their employees’ visas, including prohibiting their exit from the country if they have any outstanding debts. Authorities will often require authenticated copies of civil documents and academic qualifications to process work visas. This process must take place in the United States through the **[Department of State’s Office of Authentications.](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/replace-certify-docs/authenticate-your-document.html)** The Embassy and Consulate General cannot authenticate U.S.-issued documents.

**Teaching English:**We advise those considering accepting an English teaching job in Vietnam to carefully review the terms of the contract regarding working and living conditions and to ask for multiple references from persons familiar with the institution, especially former U.S. citizen employees, before committing to contracts. Some U.S. citizens have reported their employers have reneged on contract terms, including offering significantly lower salaries than agreed or seizing their passports, and employers have caused complications with the exit visa process for employees who quit, complicating the exit visas required to depart the country.

**Hotels:**Hotels in Vietnam require you to present your passport (and visas, if issued separately) upon check-in so that your stay can be registered with local police. Every guest in a hotel room or private residence must be registered, regardless of nationality. If you stay at a private residence (i.e., at the residence of family or friends), you must comply with registration requirements by visiting the local police station and registering your stay within 24 hours. Some provinces allow registration online.

**Exports:** Vietnamese law prohibits the export of antiques. However, these laws are vague and unevenly enforced. Customs authorities may inspect and seize your antiques without compensating you, and the determination of what is an “antique” can be arbitrary. If you purchase non-antique items of value, you should retain receipts and confirmation from shop owners and/or the Ministry of Culture and the Customs Department to prevent seizure when you leave the country.

**Imports:**Vietnamese authorities have seized documents, audio and video tapes, compact discs, literature, and personal letters they deem to be pornographic or political in nature or intended for religious or political proselytizing. It is illegal to import weapons, ammunition, explosives, military equipment and tools (including uniforms), narcotics, drugs, toxic chemicals, pornographic and subversive materials, firecrackers, or children's toys that have "negative effects on personality development, social order, and security."   
   
For up-to-date information on Vietnam Customs information, please visit the [Vietnam Customs website](https://www.customs.gov.vn/index.jsp?ngon_ngu=en).

**Freedom of Expression:**The Government of Vietnam maintains strict control over all forms of political speech, particularly dissent or speech it deems as critical of the government and/or party. U.S. citizens have been detained, tried, and convicted for political activities (including criticizing the government or its domestic/foreign policies or advocating alternatives to Communist Party rule), possession of political material, and non-sanctioned religious activities (including proselytizing). Authorities have also detained U.S. citizens for posting messages on blogs or online chatrooms that are perceived to be political or critical of the government. U.S. citizens of Vietnamese descent should be especially careful with their online postings. Review the latest version of the [Vietnam Human Rights Report](https://www.state.gov/reports/2021-country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) for the latest information on Freedom of Expression in Vietnam.

**Association with Groups:**Persons whom the Government of Vietnam perceives to be associated with dissident or political groups may be denied entry to Vietnam, prevented from departing, detained, interrogated, placed under surveillance, or even tried and convicted. Note that if arrested, you could be subject to lengthy detention without access to an attorney or family members. U.S. citizens of Vietnamese descent should be especially careful about associating with dissident groups. U.S. citizen travelers have been summoned by immigration or local security officials for reasons that are unclear or not explicitly related to any suspected or alleged violation of law. We recommend that U.S. citizens finding themselves in this situation contact the U.S. Embassy or Consulate General immediately for further information and/or assistance.

**Photography:** Taking photographs of anything that could be perceived as being of military or security interest may result in questioning by authorities, fines, or delayed travel. You should be cautious when traveling near military bases and avoid photography in these areas.  
   
**Disputes:**The Vietnamese government has occasionally seized the passports and blocked the departure of foreigners involved in commercial disputes. U.S. citizens whose passports have been seized by Vietnamese authorities should contact the Embassy or Consulate General for assistance**.**

**Civil Procedures:**Civil procedures in Vietnam, such as marriage, divorce, documenting the birth of a child, and issuance of death certificates, are highly bureaucratic and can be slow. Local authorities may refuse a request to include a non-Vietnamese name on a birth certificate. In addition, for those wishing to get married in Vietnam, you will need a notarized affidavit of single status. Please contact the [Vietnamese Embassy in Washington, D.C.](https://vietnamembassy-usa.org/), or the [Vietnamese Consulate General in San Francisco](https://vietnamconsulate-sf.org/en/home/) or[Houston](https://vnconsulate-houstontexas.mofa.gov.vn/vi-vn/Trang/default.aspx) concerning documentary requirements for these services. Authorities will often require authenticated copies of civil documents and academic qualifications for various functions. The Embassy and Consulate General cannot authenticate U.S.-issued documents. See the **[Department of State’s Office of Authentications](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/replace-certify-docs/authenticate-your-document.html)** for additional information about the authentication process.

Enforcement of civil orders is frequently difficult or non-existent.

**Women Travelers:**  See our travel tips for [Women Travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/women-travelers.html).

**LGB Rights:**There are no legal restrictions on same-sex sexual relations or in attending LGB events in Vietnam. Seeour page and section 6 of our [Human Rights report](http://www.state.gov/j/drl/rls/hrrpt/) for further details.

**Accessibility:**Most public places and public transportation are *not*accessible to persons with disabilities. Sidewalks, curb ramps, restrooms, road crossings, and tourist areas are not equipped to assist such individuals. New, modern buildings and facilities in larger urban cities are regularly built with ramps and accessible entryways.

**Students:**See our [Students Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/students.html) page and [FBI travel tips](https://ucr.fbi.gov/investigate/counterintelligence/student-brochure).