# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:**  You are subject to Indonesian laws. If you violate local laws, even unknowingly, you may be expelled, arrested, or imprisoned. Criminal cases can take months or even years to resolve, and suspects can be held without charges for up to 60 days, and in many cases longer. Indonesia‘s revised criminal code, which takes effect January 2026, includes penalties for defamation, blasphemy, cohabitation, and sex outside of marriage. Enroll in the [Smart Traveler Enrollment Program](https://step.state.gov/step/) (STEP) to stay up-to-date.

If you are convicted of possession, use, or trafficking of illegal drugs in Indonesia, you may be subject to heavy fines, long jail sentences, and even the death penalty. Some prescription medications that are available in the United States are illegal in Indonesia. Some drugs used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are illegal in Indonesia. Marijuana, Cannabis, hash, “edibles,” and products containing CBD or THC remain illegal in Indonesia, including for medicinal purposes. A medical prescription does not make it legal. If you take such products to Indonesia or purchase or use them in Indonesia, you can be arrested and face imprisonment, fines, deportation, or the death penalty. Illegal drug convictions often result in lengthy prison sentences, even at the simple possession level. Indonesian prison conditions are harsh and do not meet U.S. standards. Many prisons are overcrowded and provide minimal services. The costs of basic services, including healthcare, often must be borne by the prisoner.

Individuals establishing a business or practicing a profession that requires additional permits or licensing should seek information from the competent local authorities prior to practicing or operating a business.

Furthermore, some laws are also prosecutable in the United States regardless of local law. For examples, see our website on [crimes against minors abroad](http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/emergencies/arrest/criminalpenalties.html) and the [Department of Justice](http://www.justice.gov/usam/criminal-resource-manual-1617-extraterritorial-criminal-jurisdiction-18-usc-112-878-970-1116) website.

**Arrest Notification:**If you are arrested or detained, ask police or prison officials to notify the U.S. Embassy immediately. See our [webpage](http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/emergencies/arrest.html) for further information.

**Counterfeit and Pirated Goods:** Although counterfeit and pirated goods are prevalent in many countries, they may still be illegal according to local laws. You may also pay fines or have to give them up if you bring them back to the United States. See the [U.S. Department of Justice website](https://www.justice.gov/criminal-ccips) for more information.

**Faith-Based Travelers:**See the following webpages for details:

* [Faith-Based Travel Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/go/faith-based-travel.html)
* [nternational Religious Freedom Report](http://www.state.gov/j/drl/irf/rpt/index.htm) – see country reports
* [Human Rights Report](http://www.state.gov/j/drl/rls/hrrpt/) – see country reports
* [Hajj Fact Sheet for Travelers](http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/go/Hajj.html)
* [Best Practices for Volunteering Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/go/volunteer.html)

**LGB Travelers:**  LGB status or conduct is not illegal, but local authorities sometimes take legal action against, or tolerate harassment of people engaging in LGB relationships or openly expressing LGB identity. Some local governments have passed laws criminalizing LGB relationships. Same-sex marriages or civil unions recognized as valid in other countries are not legally recognized in Indonesia. The Indonesian Parliament revised the criminal code to include penalties for cohabitation and sex outside of marriage. These revisions, however, will not come into force until January 2026, and how they will be implemented is unclear.

Seeour [LGB Travel Information](http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/go/lgbt.html)page and section 6 of our [Human Rights report for further details](http://www.state.gov/j/drl/rls/hrrpt/).

**Sharia Law:**  Sharia law is enforced in Aceh province and may exist unofficially or through local legislation in other areas. The law is intended for Muslims and should not apply to non-Muslims or foreign visitors. You should be respectful of local traditions, mindful of social norms, and seek guidance from local police if confronted by Sharia authorities.

**Earthquakes and Tsunamis:** There are approximately 4,000 earthquakes per year in Indonesia, or more than 10 per day on average. While most earthquakes are mild, some cause significant destruction and can trigger tsunamis. Tsunami warning systems may not be operable, or reports of tremors and tsunamis may be delayed. Local construction standards are lower than in the United States, and many structures including hotels and malls are prone to damage or collapse in an earthquake. Access to disaster-affected areas is often difficult and assistance from the U.S. Embassy may be limited.

If a major earthquake or landslide occurs close to shore, you should follow the instructions of local authorities, bearing in mind that a tsunami could arrive within minutes. The [Indonesia Tsunami Early Warning Centre](http://rtsp.bmkg.go.id/publicbull.php) issues tsunami warnings when a potential tsunami with significant impact is imminent or expected.

**Volcanoes:** There are 127 active volcanoes in Indonesia. Eruptions frequently cause travel delays, displace local populations, and disrupt economic activities.

**Environmental Quality:** Air quality in Indonesia’s major cities can range from "unhealthy for sensitive groups" to "unhealthy." Current air quality data for Jakarta can be found on the Embassy’s [Air Quality](https://id.usembassy.gov/embassy-consulates/airqualitymonitor/?_ga=1.139699510.48078657.1471234033) page. Tap water is not potable throughout Indonesia and should not be consumed.

**Mountain Hiking:** When hiking in mountainous areas, obtain current information on local conditions, travel with a reputable guide, have overseas medical insurance, and carry a local mobile phone. Never go hiking or climbing alone. Particularly dangerous trails may not be clearly labeled as such. Hikers on Puncak Jaya in Papua should have realistic primary and backup plans for climbing down the mountain. Tour operators have abandoned climbers. Taking shortcuts through private property is considered trespassing and is not a safe or legal alternative to a proper plan. If possible, ensure your hiking plans are registered and known to local authorities and/or tourism operators, as this helps identify your presence in these areas in the event of an emergency.

**Dual Nationality:** Indonesian law does not recognize dual nationality for adults over 18 years of age. U.S. citizens who are also Indonesian nationals may be required to renounce their Indonesian citizenship and may also be deported. [Please visit our Dual Nationality page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/Dual-Nationality-Travelers.html).

**Travelers with Disabilities:** Persons with disabilities will face severe difficulties in Indonesia as most public places and transportation facilities do not accommodate disabled people. The law in Indonesia prohibits discrimination against persons with mental and physical disabilities, but the law is seldom enforced. Social acceptance of persons with disabilities in public is not as prevalent as in the United States. Expect accessibility to be extremely limited in public transportation, lodging, communication/information, and general infrastructure.

**Students:** See our [Students Abroad](http://travel.state.gov/content/studentsabroad/en.html) page and [FBI travel tips](https://ucr.fbi.gov/investigate/counterintelligence/student-brochure).

**Women Travelers:**  Women traveling alone may be subject to harassment and verbal abuse. Sexual assault, harassment, and rape occur. To minimize the risk, avoid travelling alone, especially at night; remain particularly vigilant in less populous areas; and be careful when dealing with strangers or recent acquaintances. Never leave food or drinks unattended or in the care of strangers. Be wary of accepting snacks, beverages, gum, or cigarettes from new acquaintances. These items may contain drugs that could put you at risk of sexual assault and robbery. While domestic violence is illegal in Indonesia, these laws are rarely enforced. Local authorities may not respond adequately to reports of sexual violence and harassment. If you are the victim of a sexual assault, you should report it immediately to local authorities and to the U.S. Embassy or U.S. Consulate General and seek medical attention. See our travel tips for [Women Travelers](http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/go/Women.html).