# Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements

[#### Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements](javascript:void(0); "Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements")

The Togolese employ an [e-visa system](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fvoyage.gouv.tg%2F&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C5921c0f2d1f4478f111608da90f13376%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C637981662862062182%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=su7P0%2BAD64VFDSTX7Mt1oWkbnQrRbfvOfu4tA4HqZ9U%3D&reserved=0) which requires U.S. citizens to apply and pay for their visas **before** arrival in Togo.  Visas are no longer issued upon arrival.

The Tourist Visa (Visa touristique) is valid for up to 90 days, with prices varying depending on number of entries and the intended duration of stay.  A single-entry tourist visa valid for up to 15 days costs 25,000 West African CFA francs (FCFA), approximately $40. Among other options, fees may be paid by credit card (Mastercard, Visa). Application requirements and information on other visa types can be found [here](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fvoyage.gouv.tg%2F&data=05%7C02%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C2ca5e5d7a06b49c1830a08dc630021f6%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638494099419378661%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=m%2FXN0WTyoiJjLfN3acj%2FwuhSTi%2FTHAr%2B74bTWeVl1a4%3D&reserved=0). A valid U.S. passport with validity of at least three months beyond the intended stay in Togo is required. The Togolese government requires visa applications to be submitted at least five business days in advance of travel.

The U.S. Embassy will not intervene for failure to comply with entry requirements for Togo. Travelers are advised to confirm all travel requirements with the Government of Togo prior to travel. You may contact the [Togolese Embassy](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fembassyoftogousa.com%2F&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C5921c0f2d1f4478f111608da90f13376%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C637981662862062182%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=M5REMpI%2BPMhDsrJn66EqFusdlGgKmPmKP4TGbrf%2FXcA%3D&reserved=0)in Washington, DC at 202-234-4212. The Togolese Embassy is located at 2208 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20008.

Land borders are closed during elections in Togo and in neighboring Ghana and Benin, and may also be closed for other reasons without notice. Register with the [Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP)](https://step.state.gov/) to obtain up-to-date information on border closures.

Documentation of Yellow Fever vaccination is required for all individuals entering Togo who are over one year of age. You will be turned away without the required World Health Organization yellow card with evidence of a current Yellow Fever vaccination. The U.S. Embassy will not intervene for failure to comply with this entry requirement for Togo. Visit the [CDC website](https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/destinations/traveler/none/togo) for detailed information on vaccinations and other health precautions.

U.S. travelers should always carry a copy of their passport while traveling in Togo in case local officials request proof of identity and immigration status.  U.S. citizens who exercise their Togolese dual nationality by using a Togo local ID card or passport upon entry should review[limitations](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/legal/travel-legal-considerations/Advice-about-Possible-Loss-of-US-Nationality-Dual-Nationality/Dual-Nationality.html) on the U.S. government’s ability to provide consular protection while in Togo.

The U.S. Department of State is unaware of any HIV/AIDS entry restrictions for visitors to or foreign residents of Togo.

Find information on [dual nationality](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/Dual-Nationality-Travelers.html "http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1753.html"), [prevention of international child abduction](https://travel.state.gov/content/childabduction/en.html "http://travel.state.gov/family/abduction/abduction_580.html"), and [customs regulations](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/customs-and-import.html) on our websites.