# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety**:  While some major thoroughfares in urban parts of Togo are paved, most secondary streets are not. Streets, especially in Lomé, can become flooded and impassable when it rains. Driving conditions are hazardous throughout Togo due to aggressive and poorly trained drivers who are not licensed and often carry loads in excess of their vehicle’s capacity. The presence of pedestrians, bicyclists, animals on the road, swarms of motorcycles, gaping sewer holes, and deteriorating pavement make driving both inside Lomé and outside particularly hazardous. Overland travel off the main north-south road connecting Lomé to Ouagadougou and east-west road connecting Lomé to Accra and Cotonou are usually unpaved and may require four-wheel drive. Togo also has a mountainous region abutting Ghana with roads that can rise up to an altitude of 500 meters within a few kilometers of driving.

Nighttime travel in Togo is especially dangerous and never recommended, particularly on the main north-south and east-west roads that see heavy semi-truck traffic from neighboring countries day and night. Even when driving in the city, keep car doors locked and the windows up. You should be aware of your surroundings and drive defensively. If you are involved in an accident, do not get out of the car if the vehicle is still drivable; instead, drive to the nearest gendarme or police precinct to report the accident. Tell other individuals involved where you are going so that they may follow. Do not attempt to negotiate the issue of damages or fault on the street without a Togo traffic officer or gendarme present.

**Traffic Laws**:  Many drivers in Togo do not obey traffic laws, which are rarely enforced. Traffic signals often do not function properly or are missing from major intersections. If you choose to drive in Togo, you should observe someone else drive beforehand in order to familiarize yourself with atypical driving practices, including stopping prior to entering a traffic circle.  You should be prepared for drivers who run red lights and stop signs or drive in the wrong direction on one-way streets. Driving can be chaotic, particularly in the crowded city center and in the dense neighborhoods along the Ghanaian border.

At official checkpoints, Togolese security officials prefer that you approach with your interior light on, headlights dimmed, and have your driver’s license, registration, and proof of insurance ready. You should carry copies of important documents, such as your passport and driver’s license, to provide to authorities rather than handing over your originals. You should never pay a bribe to the police or gendarmes for them to perform their work or to be released. Be firm and polite, and ask for permission to drive with the officer who is making the traffic stop, or trail their vehicle or motorbike, to the nearest police precinct if a resolution cannot be reached on the street. Do not let the officer enter your vehicle.

**Public Transportation**:  Safety standards for small, private buses and taxis are substandard. You should exercise caution when using any form of local public transportation, and avoid motorcycle-taxis when possible. Never get into a taxi with unknown passengers, and always agree on the fare before getting into the car.

See our [Road Safety page](http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/go/safety/road.html) for more information.

**Aviation Safety Oversight**:  As there is no direct commercial air service to the United States by carriers registered in Togo, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has not assessed the government of Togo’s Civil Aviation Authority for compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) aviation safety standards. Further information may be found on the [FAA’s safety assessment page](https://www.faa.gov/about/initiatives/iasa/).

**Maritime Travel**:  Mariners planning travel to Togo should also check for [U.S. maritime advisories and alerts](https://www.maritime.dot.gov/msci-alerts). Information may also be posted to the [U.S. Coast Guard homeport website](https://homeport.uscg.mil/), and the [NGA broadcast warnings](https://msi.nga.mil/NavWarnings).