# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:** You are subject to local laws. If you violate local laws, even unknowingly, you may be expelled, arrested, or imprisoned. Individuals establishing a business or practicing a profession that requires additional permits or licensing should seek information from the competent local authorities, prior to practicing or operating a business.

As each emirate has its own independent judicial system, legal procedures and penalties vary throughout the country.

Furthermore, some laws are also prosecutable in the United States, regardless of local law. For examples, see our [website on crimes against minors abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention/crimes-against-minors.html) and the [Department of Justice](https://www.justice.gov/usam/criminal-resource-manual-1617-extraterritorial-criminal-jurisdiction-18-usc-112-878-970-1116) website.

**Arrest Notification:** UAE authorities do not routinely notify the U.S. Embassy or consulate of a U.S. citizen’s arrest.  If you are arrested or detained, ask police or prison officials to notify the U.S. Embassy or consulate immediately.  If you are not allowed to do so, ask a friend or family member to contact the U.S. Embassy or consulate. See our [webpage](http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/emergencies/arrest.html) for further information.

**Alcohol:** Alcohol is sold only in very limited areas including certain restaurants and hotels. Public drunkenness and driving under the influence, regardless of one’s blood alcohol content level, are considered very serious offenses. Persons arrested on alcohol-related offenses are regularly detained for many days as they await a court hearing. Penalties may include hefty jail sentences, substantial fines and, for Muslims (even those holding U.S. citizenship), lashings.  
  
**Note:** The possession and consumption of alcohol is prohibited in the emirate of Sharjah.

**Drugs:** UAE law imposes the death sentence for convicted drug traffickers. Possession of even trace amounts of illegal drugs (including in the bloodstream) can result in lengthy prison sentences of up to 15 years. Bail generally is not granted to those accused of drug crimes.

Possession or consumption of marijuana in any form, including detections of trace amounts in the bloodstream, is illegal in the UAE, even if a doctor’s medical card is presented. Products containing cannabidiol (CBD) are illegal in the UAE. Possession or importation of CBD products, including those found in prescription and over the counter medications in the United States and other countries, are prosecuted in the same manner as marijuana possession. The UAE's anti-narcotics program also includes poppy seeds on its list of controlled substances. The importation and possession of poppy seeds in any and all forms, including as dried decorative plants, are strictly prohibited.

Persons may be charged and convicted even if the controlled substances were ingested outside of the UAE as long as traces are still present in the bloodstream upon arrival in the UAE. If suspected of being under the influence of drugs or alcohol, individuals may be required to submit to blood and/or urine tests and may be subject to prosecution.

Travelers with questions regarding the items on the [list of controlled substances](https://www.government.ae/en/information-and-services/health-and-fitness/drugs-and-controlled-medicines/controlled-medicines-) should contact the [U.S. Embassy in Abu Dhabi](https://ae.usembassy.gov/) or the [U.S. Consulate General in Dubai](https://ae.usembassy.gov/contact/#dubai).

**Codes of Behavior and Dress:** Public decency and morality laws throughout the UAE are much stricter than in the United States. Penalties for public displays of affection or immodesty may be imposed. Sexual relations outside marriage are illegal in the UAE and convicted individuals have been punished by lengthy jail sentences. Pregnancy outside of marriage can result in arrest and detention. Doctors may ask for proof of marriage during pre-natal visits, and those giving birth in the UAE must present a marriage certificate to receive medical care and register the child’s birth. Failure to do so has resulted in the arrests of both unmarried mothers and fathers, as well as deportation.

Individuals may be arrested, fined, and/or deported for committing any of the following acts: making rude gestures, swearing, touching another person without his/her permission, and making derogatory statements about the UAE, the royal families, the local governments or other people. Travelers should keep in mind the cultural differences among the many people who coexist in the UAE and should be cognizant that unwitting actions, including clothing choices, may invite unwanted attention.

**Debt and Financial Crime:**Crimes of financial fraud, including passing bad checks and non-payment or late payment of bills (including hotel bills, hospital bills, traffic or parking fines, and late payment of credit cards, utility bills, etc.), are regarded seriously in the UAE and often result in imprisonment and/or fines. A personal check written as a guarantee for the payment of a personal or business debt may be submitted to a local bank for collection at any time for the full amount of the check. If the account holder does not have sufficient funds, he/she may be charged with passing a bad check. Bail generally is not available to non-residents of the UAE who are arrested for crimes involving fraud. Debtors can be held in prison until their debts are paid or until an agreement is reached between the parties. Passports may be seized by the UAE government to guarantee that debtors settle their cases. Financial cases may be further complicated by debtors being unable to work in the UAE without passports while still being held responsible for their debts.

**Photography:** Taking photographs of UAE military facilities, sensitive civilian sites, airports, some beaches, or foreign diplomatic missions – including the U.S. Embassy or Consulate General – may result in arrest, detention, and/or prosecution by local authorities. Travelers should be aware of signs which indicate where photography is prohibited. Note that it is illegal to take photographs of other people without their consent. In addition, engaging in mapping activities, especially mapping that includes the use of GPS equipment, without coordination with UAE authorities, may have the same consequences. (This does not apply to use of publicly available online maps.)

**Drone Operation:** The flying of drones is prohibited in certain areas and may result in arrest and imprisonment. Individuals should not operate drones without prior approval from local authorities.

**Social Media:** The UAE has strict laws regarding use of the internet and social media. Individuals have been arrested and criminally convicted for posting information on social media sites (such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, etc.) that local authorities determined was disturbing to the order of the UAE. Users of social media should be cautious about online posting of information that might be deemed to insult or challenge the local or national government. Individuals should avoid posting insults or derogatory information about governments, institutions, or individuals.

Charity and fundraising activities are closely regulated by the UAE government, and it is against the law to conduct any private fundraising activity online (including those conducted on popular fundraising websites for personal causes).

The UAE National Media Council has rules for conducting business as a social media influencer in the UAE. Influencers must apply for trade and e-media licenses in order to promote brands on social media in the UAE.

**Terrorist Organizations List:** On November 15, 2014, the UAE government announced a list of 85 groups it considers to be terrorist organizations. Individuals who are associated with groups on the UAE list could be detained at UAE borders, have their assets frozen, and/or be prosecuted for membership in a terrorist organization.

**Religious Proselytizing:** While individuals are free to worship as they choose, and facilities are available for that purpose, religious proselytizing is not permitted in the UAE. Persons violating this law, even unknowingly, may be imprisoned or deported.

**Employment in the UAE:** Although it is common for a local sponsor to hold an employee's passport, it is illegal to do so under UAE law. Many contractual or labor disputes can be avoided by clearly establishing all terms and conditions of employment or sponsorship in the labor contract at the beginning of any employment. Should a dispute arise, the UAE Ministry of Labor has established a special department to review and arbitrate labor claims. If an employee leaves his/her job without properly canceling the employment visa, the employer can file charges that can lead to imprisonment, fines, and/or deportation. The U.S. Embassy and Consulate General do not intercede in employment disputes.

U.S. citizens have become involved in commercial or financial disputes that have prompted local firms or courts to take possession of the U.S. citizen's passport, effectively preventing the individual from leaving the UAE. In addition, local firms have been known to file criminal complaints, which may lead not only to travel restrictions but possible criminal penalties, including jail time. A list of local attorneys is available from the U.S. Embassy in Abu Dhabi and the U.S. Consulate General in Dubai.

**Document Authentications:** U.S. citizens intending to reside and work in the UAE are generally required by the UAE government to present authenticated personal documents for themselves and accompanying family members such as marriage and birth certificates, adoption and custody decrees, certificates of good behavior from police, and educational documents to include diplomas and certificates. The authentication of U.S. documents is done completely in the United States. For information, contact the State Department’s [Office of Authentications](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/records-and-authentications/authenticate-your-document/office-of-authentications.html). Determining the exact requirements with one’s prospective employer is strongly recommended before arrival in the UAE.

**LGB Travelers:** Although the U.S. Embassy and U.S. Consulate General are not aware of any recent arrests or prosecutions for consensual, same-sex relations and cross-dressing, they remain illegal in the UAE. See our [LGB Travel Information page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/lgbtqi.html) and section six of our Human Rights [report](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) for further details.

**Travelers with Disabilities:** While in the UAE, individuals with disabilities may find accessibility and accommodations somewhat different from what they find in the United States. The law prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities in employment, education, air travel and other transportation, access to health care, or the provision of other state services, and the law is enforced. The UAE government refers to persons with disabilities as “people of determination.” Social acceptance of persons with disabilities in public is as prevalent as in the United States. The most common types of accessibility may include accessible facilities, information, and communication/access to services/ease of movement or access.

The UAE has several modern cities with good services and accessibility of lodging, public transportation, sidewalks, and buildings. Outside of newly constructed areas, accessibility is not comparable to the United States and navigating with a visual impairment or using a wheelchair is difficult due to sidewalks in disrepair or without curb cuts, poor road crossings, and inaccessible buildings and public transport. Public transportation in Dubai is wheelchair accessible. However, the buses that connect Dubai with the other emirates in the UAE are not wheelchair accessible. See the [UAE government information](https://u.ae/information-and-services/social-affairs/people-of-determination/accessible-transport-and-parking-facilities) on accessible transport and parking facilities. See our [Traveling with Disabilities](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/traveling-with-disabilties.html) page.

**Women Travelers:** See our travel tips for [Women Travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/women-travelers.html).

**Students:** See our [Students Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/students.html) page and [FBI travel tips.](https://www.fbi.gov/file-repository/student-travel-brochure-pdf.pdf)