# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:** You are subject to local laws. If you violate local laws, even unknowingly, you may be expelled, arrested, or imprisoned. Individuals establishing a business or practicing a profession that requires additional permits or licensing should seek information from the competent local authorities, prior to practicing or operating a business.

Penalties for possessing, using, or trafficking in illegal drugs in Lebanon can be significant, and convicted offenders can expect long jail sentences and heavy fines. Visitors lacking passport or identification documents at government checkpoints are subject to questioning by Lebanese authorities. In certain areas, taking photos of buildings or other infrastructure has led to questioning and detention. In Lebanon, persons driving under the influence can be jailed immediately.

Furthermore, some laws are also prosecutable in the United States, regardless of local law. For examples, see our website on [crimes against minors abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention/crimes-against-minors.html) and the [Department of Justice website](https://www.justice.gov/archives/jm/criminal-resource-manual-1617-extraterritorial-criminal-jurisdiction-18-usc-112-878-970-1116).

**Arrest Notification:** If you are arrested or detained, ask police or prison officials to notify the U.S. Embassy immediately. See our [webpage](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention.html) for further information.

Individuals who were affiliated with the former militia known as the South Lebanon Army (SLA) and previously departed Lebanon because of their association with that group should carefully consider any plans to return to Lebanon. Alleged former members of the SLA have been detained on arrival and received threats to their physical security, even after receiving assurances from Lebanese officials and/or legal counsel in Lebanon that they could return safely.

**Counterfeit and Pirated Goods:** Although counterfeit and pirated goods are prevalent in many countries, they may still be illegal according to local laws. You may also pay fines or have to give them up if you bring them back to the United States. See the [U.S. Department of Justice website](https://www.justice.gov/criminal-ccips) for more information.

**Faith-Based Travelers:**  See the following webpages for details:

* [Faith-Based Travel Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/faith-based-travel.html)
* [International Religious Freedom Report – see country reports](https://www.state.gov/international-religious-freedom-reports/)
* [Human Rights Report – see country reports](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/)
* [Hajj Fact Sheet for Travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/hajj-umrah.html)
* [Best Practices for Volunteering Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/volunteering-abroad.html)

**LGB Travelers:** LGB status and/or conduct is criminalized in Lebanon, and LGB persons can face significant social stigma. Article 534 of the Lebanese Penal Code prohibits sexual relations, “contradicting the laws of nature,” an offense punishable by up to one year in prison. Although Lebanese courts have interpreted this provision in different ways and prosecutions are rare, judicial decisions can vary case-to-case and LGB adults have been charged, tried, and convicted for engaging in consensual same-sex relations. Authorities have arrested LGB individuals for minor offenses, then charged them with violation of Article 534 when evidence of their LGB identity is uncovered, through searches of cell phones or other personal material. While prosecution is uncommon, short-term detentions can expose individuals to discrimination and abuse.

There has been a rise in anti-LGB rhetoric from political and religious leaders, accompanied by an increase in online harassment, threats of violence, and violence against LGB persons. In August 2023, members of an anti-LGB religious group attacked an LGB friendly establishment in the Mar Mikhael neighborhood of Beirut, reportedly threatening, assaulting, and injuring patrons. Gatherings, events, or items (including those with rainbows) perceived as “promoting homosexuality” have the potential of being scrutinized, monitored or disbanded by security forces.

See our [LGB Travel Information page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/lgbtqi.html) and section 6 of our [Human Rights Report](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) for further details.

**Travelers with Disabilities:** The law in Lebanon prohibits discrimination against persons with physical, sensory, intellectual or mental disabilities, but the law is unevenly enforced. Social acceptance of persons with disabilities in public is relatively low. Some facilities and information have been made accessible, but such standard accessibility is not common. Expect infrastructure accessibility to be limited in urban areas, and even more so in the rest of the country. There are a handful of hotels that are partially accessible in the Beirut area. Some transportation companies do provide accessible services. Events and activities are rarely designed to be inclusive.

Service providers for people with disabilities, such as sign language interpreters or personal assistants, are available but limited in Lebanon. The best way to find assistance is to contact organizations for people with disabilities such as the Lebanese Union for Persons with Physical Disabilities, the Youth Association of the Blind, the Lebanese Federation of the Deaf, or the Lebanese Association for Self Advocacy.

**Students:** See our [Students Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/students.html) page and [FBI travel tips](https://ucr.fbi.gov/investigate/counterintelligence/student-brochure).

**Exit Bans:** U.S. citizens living in or traveling in Lebanon are sometimes denied permission to depart the country because a criminal, civil, or family court has imposed an exit ban. For example, a head of household can place an exit ban against a spouse and children even before the family arrives in Lebanon. Easily initiated, exit bans remain in place for prolonged periods and can only be removed by petition from an attorney. The U.S. Embassy cannot have exit bans removed, even in times of crisis. An attorney’s list is available on [U.S. Embassy Beirut’s website](https://lb.usembassy.gov/legal-assistance/).

**Women Travelers:** See our travel tips for [Women Travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/women-travelers.html).

**Dual Citizenship:** U.S. citizens who also hold Lebanese nationality are considered by local authorities to be Lebanese, even when entering Lebanon using a U.S. passport. Lebanese-U.S. citizens who are suspected of association with Israeli citizens or officials, or to have traveled through Israel, are subject to detention, arrest, and prosecution. Their passports may be retained by Lebanese authorities on arrival, and they must appear at the Lebanese Military court the next business day for investigation, after which their passports may be returned if no connections with Israel are confirmed. U.S. citizen dual nationals of other Arab countries who arrive at a Lebanese point of entry with an Israeli stamp in their passports will be denied entry and may be detained or arrested. Travelers with a family name deemed to be of Israeli or Jewish origin may also be questioned or detained.

Travelers who have previously entered Lebanon illegally under Lebanese law, whether as refugees or for transit to a third country, may be denied entry, even if they are or have since become U.S. citizens.

**Middle Eastern Heritage:** U.S. citizens with names reflecting Middle Eastern heritage may face additional scrutiny at Lebanese ports of entry and may be required to show documentary evidence of their parentage: specifically, official proof of their father’s name such as a copy of their birth certificate.

**Marrying in Lebanon:** More than 18 separate and distinct religious sects solemnize marriages in Lebanon. Civil marriage is not available. U.S. citizen and Lebanese national couples should familiarize themselves with the rights and responsibilities of marriage as defined by the religion performing their marriage. They should be aware that religious clerics and religious courts dictate all personal status matters related to marriage, divorce, and child custody. In matters of marriage, child custody, inheritance, and divorce, personal status laws provide unequal treatment across the various confessional court systems but generally discriminate against women.  Nationality law also discriminates against women, who may not confer citizenship to their spouses and children. Civil marriages performed outside of Lebanon and registered with Lebanon’s Ministry of the Interior fall under civil court jurisdiction regarding divorce and child custody.

**Military Service Obligation:** Mandatory military service in Lebanon was abolished in 2007. However, travelers with questions about prior military service, desertion, or failure to register in the past should contact the [Embassy of Lebanon in Washington, D.C.](http://www.lebanonembassyus.org/) for details prior to traveling to Lebanon.

**Customs:** Lebanese customs authorities may enforce strict regulations concerning import and export of items, such as firearms, military paraphernalia, professional camera equipment, other communications equipment, or antiquities. You should contact the Embassy of Lebanon in Washington, D.C., for specific information regarding customs requirements. Please see our information on [customs regulations](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/customs-and-import.html).