# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety:** Take extra caution when driving in Curaçao. Proceed through intersections with caution as traffic signs are often hidden or nonexistent.  Roads are extremely slippery when it rains.  Look out for scooters, motorcycles, and ATVs, as drivers of these vehicles may not strictly follow traffic rules. Be alert for speeding cars and drunk drivers. In rural areas, watch out for goats and other animals that cross the road unexpectedly. Night driving is reasonably safe, as long as drivers are familiar with the route and road conditions. Roads are not as well-lit as in the United States. Driving while intoxicated may result in the loss of a driver’s license, fine, and imprisonment.

**Traffic Laws:**Vehicles operate on the right-hand side in Curaçao. You can drive in Curaçao with a valid U.S. driver’s license. Right turns at red lights are prohibited. Traffic signs prohibiting actions have a red circle around them, but not the red slash you expect to see in the United States. Local laws require drivers and passengers to wear seat belts, and motorcyclists to wear helmets. Children must ride in the back seat, and children under 5 years of age must be in a child safety seat.

At intersections and traffic circles, yield to traffic coming from your right unless signs indicate otherwise. Right turns at red lights are prohibited. U-turns are often restricted. Traffic signs prohibiting actions have a red circle around them, but not the red slash you expect to see in the United States. At all T-crossings, through traffic has priority.

If you get into an accident, do not move the vehicle or pull over. Call your rental agency and call Curaçao Road Services at 199. You may be required to file a police report.

In case of car trouble, call Roadside Assistance 24/7 Curaçao at 9-24-7.

**Public Transportation:** Public transportation is limited. There are two bus terminals, one in Punda near the post office at the Waaigat and another in Otrobanda near the overpass. Large buses (called ‘Konvooi’) travel limited, longer-distance routes, typically once per hour. Mini-vans and mini-buses bearing the word “BUS” on their registration plates travel shorter routes on main roads. They are inexpensive and run non-stop during the daytime with no fixed schedule. Each minibus has a specific route that is displayed on the front windshield. Taxis are expensive, but generally safe and well-regulated. There are no meters, so passengers should determine the price in advance.

See our [Road Safety page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/other-legal/driving-and-road-safety.html) for more information. Visit the website of [Curaçao’s Tourism Board](http://www.curacao.com/en/directory/plan/transportation/) for more information about transportation.

**Watersports Advisory:** You should carefully assess the potential risks inherent in recreational water activities and measure your participation in them against your physical capabilities and skills. Never venture out alone, particularly at isolated beaches or far out to sea. Avoid entering the water above your waist if you have been drinking and always be mindful of watercraft traffic in the area. When in doubt, stay out!

**Cliff Jumping and Diving Advisory:** Carefully consider the potential risks inherent in cliff jumping and cliff diving. Individuals have suffered serious injuries from engaging in these activities in Curaçao.

**Aviation Safety Oversight:** As there is no direct commercial air service to the United States by carriers registered in Curaçao, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has not assessed the government of Curaçao’s civil aviation authority for compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization aviation safety standards.  Further information may be found on the [FAA’s safety assessment page](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.faa.gov%2Fabout%2Finitiatives%2Fiasa%2F&data=05%7C01%7CDolceMR%40state.gov%7Ca5c60af35b554387a31508db9909d9c6%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638272039804350925%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=%2BlWJcHg%2FPDRzFUjEEkt%2Bo6PWh8iEzGliDSSu%2BTJp7B4%3D&reserved=0 "https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.faa.gov%2Fabout%2Finitiatives%2Fiasa%2F&data=05%7C01%7CDolceMR%40state.gov%7Ca5c60af35b554387a31508db9909d9c6%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638272039804350925%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=%2BlWJcHg%2FPDRzFUjEEkt%2Bo6PWh8iEzGliDSSu%2BTJp7B4%3D&reserved=0")

**Maritime Travel:**Mariners planning travel to Curaçao must have completed a Customs Form 1300, Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement declaring their intention to travel to Curaçao prior to their departure from the U.S. port. Mariners failing to fill out and submit this form will be denied entry to Curaçao’s ports. Mariners planning travel to Curaçao should also check for [U.S. maritime advisories and alerts](https://www.maritime.dot.gov/msci-alerts).  Information may also be posted to the [U.S. Coast Guard homeport website](https://homeport.uscg.mil/), and the [NGA broadcast warnings](https://msi.nga.mil/NavWarnings).