## Safety and security

* Travellers should take seriously the global risk of indiscriminate terror attacks, which also applies to Germany. We advise all citizens to maintain an awareness of their surroundings, remain vigilant and to follow the security advice issued by the German authorities, including the [Bundespolizei](https://www.bundespolizei.de/Web/DE/_Home/_home_node.html) and Local State Police (e.g., Berlin Police on X [@polizeiberlin](https://x.com/polizeiberlin)).
* Pickpocketing and petty theft are common, particularly around the larger train stations and tourist areas. Be careful of personal belongings and aware of your surroundings.
* Be alert regarding possible scams. If stopped for assistance in a busy area, this could be an attempt to distract you while you are robbed. If approached by someone claiming to have been robbed, do not hand over money but instead advise the individual to contact the police.
* Reports of sexual assault can increase during large-scale events and festivals such as Silvester (New Year's Eve), Karneval/Fasching (Carnival) or Oktoberfest. If a victim of sexual assault, go to the hospital immediately, and contact the police by calling 110 to report the assault and obtain a police report.
* Avoid demonstrations by any organisation or political party which appears to be inciting racism or hatred. Using or displaying Nazi symbols or material is illegal in Germany.
* If a victim of a crime while in Germany, report it to the local police immediately by contacting 110. Citizens can also contact the [**Embassy of Ireland in Berlin**](https://www.ireland.ie/en/germany/berlin/) for advice and assistance.
* Please be advised that illegal drugs and substances are common in the Berlin club and night life scene. These can be unknown drugs or new substances as Berlin is a point of exchange of these in Germany.
* Follow the Embassy of Ireland in Berlin on Twitter. In the event of a security incident, we will issue travel advice from [**@IrlEmbBerlin**](https://twitter.com/irlembberlin). In the event of a crisis, we will only post updates issued by the authorities in Ireland and Germany.
* If you are an Irish citizen and require emergency assistance outside of normal working hours, leave a message on the Embassy Berlin emergency number (+49 30 220 720) stating your name, location, telephone number and the nature of the emergency and the Embassy duty officer will return your call. Do not send an email if you require emergency assistance outside normal working hours