# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety:**U.S. citizens have been injured and killed in traffic accidents throughout Paraguay. Only minimal standards must be met to obtain a Paraguayan driver’s license, and a driver’s education prior to licensing is not common.  
 **Traffic Laws:** Drivers throughout Paraguay routinely ignore traffic regulations. No vehicle insurance is required, and many Paraguayans drive without insurance coverage.  
  
**Public Transportation:** Public transportation is readily available for urban and intercity travel. Buses vary in maintenance conditions and may not meet U.S. safety standards. Taxis are available and may be called using telephone numbers listed in newspapers. Mobile ride hailing services are also available in the capital area. No passenger train service exists. Bicycle travel may not be safe because of traffic and other road hazards.  
  
Most urban streets consist of cobblestones over dirt. Nearly all rural roads are unpaved and may be impassable during rainy periods and the rainy season (November-April). Driving or traveling at night is not advisable outside of Asuncion, due to the presence of pedestrians, animals, or vehicles without proper lighting on the roads.  
  
See our [Road Safety page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/driving-and-road-safety.html) for more information. Visit the website of Paraguay’s [national tourist office](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/Paraguay.html#ExternalPopup) and [national authority](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/Paraguay.html#ExternalPopup) responsible for road safety. The Touring and Automobile Club provides some roadside assistance to its [members](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/Paraguay.html#ExternalPopup). The club may be contacted in Asuncion by visiting its offices at 25 de Mayo near Avenida Brazil or by calling 210-550 to 210-553. Intercity highway maintenance is not equal to U.S. standards. The privately maintained toll road between Caaguazu and Ciudad del Este and the routes between Asuncion and Encarnacion and Asuncion and Pedro Juan Caballero are generally in good condition. The Trans-Chaco route is in fair condition except for the portion between Mariscal Estigarribia and the Bolivian border, which is unpaved and at times impassable.  
  
**Aviation Safety Oversight:**As there is no direct commercial air service to the United States by carriers registered in Paraguay, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has not assessed the government of Paraguay’s Civil Aviation Authority for compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) aviation safety standards. Further information may be found on the [FAA’s safety assessment page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/Paraguay.html#ExternalPopup).