## Health

### **Prescription Medications**

Prescription medicines are tightly controlled in the UAE. Medications available over the counter or by prescription in Ireland, such as codeine may be illegal or considered a controlled substance in the UAE. Carefully consult the [**UAE Ministry of Health**](https://u.ae/en/information-and-services/health-and-fitness/drugs-and-controlled-medicines) guidelines before travelling to the UAE.

If your medication is on the controlled drugs list, pre-approval is required to bring it into the UAE. Online approvals can take up to five working days following completion of the application form. You will require the original prescription and an attested medical report and will only be permitted to carry up to a maximum of 3 months’ supply for narcotics & controlled medicines, and a maximum of 6 months’ supply for prescription-only medicines. If you arrive in the UAE without prior approval or the required documentation for approval on entry, the medication will not be allowed into the UAE and you may be prosecuted under UAE law.

Other medicines not on the controlled list may be brought into the UAE but always carry the original prescription and not more than three months’ supply. Medicines should be in the original packaging and should not have expired. Possession of controlled or prescription medication without proper documentation may lead to confiscation and, in some cases, prosecution. Possession of illegal drugs — even in trace amounts — is a criminal offence in the UAE and carries a minimum sentence of 3 months’ imprisonment or a fine of AED 20,000 to AED 100,000, or both. Larger quantities or evidence of intent to supply can lead to significantly harsher penalties, including life imprisonment or the death penalty for trafficking. Further information on controlled medicines and permissions can be obtained directly from the [**UAE Ministry of Health**](https://mohap.gov.ae/en/services/issue-of-permit-to-import-medicines-for-personal-use) by emailing **info@moh.gov.ae** or calling +971 2 652 0500.