# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety**: Roads are generally in poor condition, causing damage to vehicles and contributing to hazardous traffic conditions. There are few working traffic lights or stop signs, and few traffic officers to manage traffic during power outages. The rainy season, generally from May to October, is especially dangerous because of flooded roads and water-concealed potholes.

All drivers and passengers should wear seat belts, lock doors, and keep windows closed. You should have appropriate automobile insurance.  Drivers and passengers of vehicles involved in accidents resulting in injury or death have experienced extra-judicial actions, i.e., mob attacks, official consequences such as fines and incarceration, and/or confrontations with the victim's family.

Driving between 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. should be done with extreme caution.  Automobiles, trucks, or “okadas” (motorbikes) often drive on the wrong side of the road or on sidewalks.

**Traffic Laws**: Motor vehicle accidents can be reported by dialing “119.” Traffic control officers may occasionally seek bribes when citing drivers for traffic violations. If stopped by traffic police, drivers should stop as instructed. However, drivers should also keep their doors locked and only roll their windows down an inch for sound. Do not pay any bribes.If requested to drive an officer to the police station, do not do so, especially at night, as some traffic police are imposters.

**Public Transportation**:  We recommend avoiding public transportation throughout Nigeria. Public transportation vehicles, such as buses and motorbikes, are unsafe due to poor maintenance, high speeds, and overcrowding. Motorbikes are banned within Abuja's city limits and many major thoroughfares in Lagos. “Okada” drivers and passengers are required to wear helmets in several cities; police can fine violators on the spot.

See our [Road Safety page](http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/go/safety/road.html) for more information, and visit Nigeria’s [Federal Road Safety Corps](https://frsc.gov.ng/) website.

**Aviation Safety Oversight**: The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has assessed the government of Nigeria’s Civil Aviation Authority as being in compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) aviation safety standards for oversight of Nigeria’s air carrier operations. Further information may be found on the [FAA’s safety assessment page](https://www.faa.gov/about/initiatives/iasa/).

**Maritime Travel**: Mariners planning travel to Nigeria or through the Gulf of Guinea should also check for [U.S. maritime advisories and alerts](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.maritime.dot.gov%2Fmsci-alerts&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C3a532ad32f6949ed039a08db3c1e7a33%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638169873810413991%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=7Vv0mDGluCnzgJYWkT5s5lB0sFVXiqt%2Fjh54kxcPdGU%3D&reserved=0). Information may also be posted to the [U.S. Coast Guard homeport website](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fhomeport.uscg.mil%2F&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C3a532ad32f6949ed039a08db3c1e7a33%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638169873810413991%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=sWIkr7j2b1hgFpYugMqE5WdwXH4TkJuvIYfClqK3pw0%3D&reserved=0), and the [ICC](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.icc-ccs.org%2Findex.php%2Fpiracy-reporting-centre&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C3a532ad32f6949ed039a08db3c1e7a33%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638169873810413991%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=dtrN8JxKeCaXivp%2BwG1y%2FY3GUcBct2UpYTefbrt0%2Bvw%3D&reserved=0) and [NGA](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmsi.nga.mil%2FNavWarnings&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C3a532ad32f6949ed039a08db3c1e7a33%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638169873810413991%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=lBSWOK9C%2F6gOsGDqi44I2FqEV2ZAyaa3FI%2BzELucmCs%3D&reserved=0) broadcast warnings.

The Commandant of the Coast Guard has determined that effective anti-terrorism measures are not in place in Nigeria ports and has imposed conditions of entry on vessels that arrive in U.S. ports having visited ports in Nigeria. Mariners and passengers on commercial vessels traveling through the ports of Nigeria should exercise increased caution.