# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:**You are subject to the local laws of the locations you visit or reside in. Foreign laws and legal systems can be significantly different from those of the United States. If you violate Israeli or Palestinian Authority (PA) laws, even unknowingly, being a U.S. citizen will not help you avoid arrest or prosecution. The Israeli government will treat dual U.S-Israeli citizens as Israeli citizens, and the Palestinian Authority will treat dual U.S.-PA passport holders as PA "citizens”– regardless of whether they entered Israel or PA-administered area on a U.S. passport.

Penalties for possession, use, or trafficking illegal drugs in Israel and PA-administered areas are severe and convicted offenders can expect long jail sentences and heavy fines. Individuals expressing views, including on social media, which the Government of Israel considers incitement to violence or hate speech may face criminal penalties, even if the the substance and manner in which those views are expressed would be lawful in the United States. PA security officials have also arrested Palestinians who posted criticism of the PA and PA leadership online. In Gaza, individuals publicly criticizing authorities risk reprisal by Hamas, including arrest, interrogation, seizure of property, and harassment.

Furthermore, some laws are also prosecutable in the United States, regardless of local law. For examples, see our website on [crimes against minors abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/emergencies/arrest/criminalpenalties.html) and the [Department of Justice](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/IsraeltheWestBankandGaza.html#ExternalPopup) website.

**Arrests and Arrest Notification:**If you are arrested or detained, ask police or prison officials to notify U.S. Embassy Jerusalem or Branch Office Tel Aviv immediately. See our [website on arrest or detention of a U.S. citizen abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/emergencies/arrest.html) for further information. While the U.S. Embassy may not recommend a particular foreign attorney, the embassy website has the [names of several attorneys](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fil.usembassy.gov%2Fu-s-citizen-services%2Fattorneys%2F&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C6f806e3f127d45d020bd08db57d698d5%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638200351422234069%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=ok15bHl%2BfBZvRJ4zvHFoqFIMXzcx5DQbMgsysXSNf3Q%3D&reserved=0) who have identified themselves as willing to assist U.S. citizen clients. Please note that inclusion on this list in no way represents an endorsement of services by the Department or the U.S. government.

**Arrests and Arrest Notification by Israel:**

* The Government of Israel is required by a bilateral treaty and customary international law to promptly notify the U.S. Embassy when a U.S. citizen is arrested in Israel to inform them that if the citizen is a U.S. citizen and requests that the U.S. Embassy be notified and makes such a request. In case of arrest or detention, U.S. citizens should promptly identify themselves as such to the arresting authorities and request that the authorities notify the U.S. Embassy immediately. There are credible reports that U.S. citizens have been mistreated by Israeli security forces during their arrest and interrogation.
* Some youths over the age of 12 have been tried as adults; youths over the age of 14 can be imprisoned.
* Arrestees have also reported pressure to sign documents in Hebrew that they do not understand.
* U.S. citizens arrested in Israel for criminal or security offenses are entitled to legal representation provided by the Government of Israel. U.S. citizens arrested by Israeli authorities for security offenses may be prevented from communicating with lawyers, family members, or consular officers for lengthy periods. Even after notification, consular access to the arrested individual may be delayed for days to several weeks. Under Israeli law, individuals detained for security offenses may be held for up to six months without charges.

**Arrests and Arrest Notification by the Palestinian Authority (PA):**

* In case of arrest or detention, U.S. citizens should promptly identify themselves as such to the arresting authorities and should request that the U.S. Embassy be notified immediately. Individuals arrested by PA security forces in the West Bank for security offenses may be prohibited from communicating with lawyers, family members, or consular officers for lengthy periods. In addition, they may be held in custody for long periods without formal charges or before being brought before a judge for an arrest extension. The PA often does not notify the U.S. Embassy of such arrests, and consular access to arrestees is often delayed. There are credible reports that arrested individuals, including U.S. citizens, have been mistreated by PA security forces during their arrest and interrogation.

**Gaza:** Since Hamas seized control of the Gaza Strip in June 2007, they have dominated security matters in Gaza, but this control has been degraded by Israel’s ongoing military operations against Hamas. The U.S. government is severely limited in what it can do to assist those detained in Gaza. In case of arrest or detention by Israeli security forces in Gaza, U.S. citizens should promptly identify themselves as such to the arresting authorities and should request that the U.S. Embassy be notified immediately.

**Israeli Court Jurisdiction:** Military, civil and religious courts in Israel actively exercise their authority to bar certain individuals, including nonresidents, from leaving the country until debts or other legal claims and matters against them are resolved. Israel's religious courts exercise jurisdiction over all citizens and residents of Israel in cases of marriage, divorce, child custody, and child support. U.S. citizens, including those without Israeli citizenship, may be subject to involuntary and prolonged stays (and even imprisonment) in Israel if a case is filed against them in a religious court, even if their marriage took place in the United States, and regardless of whether their spouse is present in Israel. The U.S. Embassy is unable to cancel the debt of a U.S. citizen or guarantee their departure from Israel when they face a bar from leaving the country until debts are resolved.   
   
**Purchases of Property:** U.S. citizens should always seek legal advice before buying or leasing property in the West Bank and Gaza. Please see the most recent [Investment Climate Statement for the West Bank and Gaza](https://www.state.gov/reports/2023-investment-climate-statements/west-bank-and-gaza/) for additional information on property rights.

**Counterfeit and Pirated Goods:** Although counterfeit and pirated goods are prevalent in many countries, they may be illegal according to the local laws. Counterfeit and pirated goods also may pose significant risks to consumer health and safety. You may be subject to fines and/or have to give up counterfeit and pirated goods if you bring them back to the United States.See the [U.S. Customs and Border Protection website](https://www.cbp.gov/trade/fakegoodsrealdangers#:~:text=It%20is%20illegal%20to%20purchase%20counterfeit%20goods.%20Bringing,activities%2C%20such%20as%20forced%20labor%20or%20human%20trafficking.) and [U.S. Department of Justice](https://www.justice.gov/criminal/criminal-ccips) website for more information.

**Faith-Based Travelers:**See the following webpages for details:

* [Faith-Based Travel Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/faith-based-travel.html)
* [International Religious Freedom Report](https://www.state.gov/international-religious-freedom-reports/) – see country reports
* [Human Rights Report](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) – see country reports
* [Best Practices for Volunteering Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/volunteering-abroad.html)

**International Volunteers:**

* [Best Practices for Volunteering Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/volunteering-abroad.html)

**LGB Rights:**There are no legal restrictions on same-sex sexual relations or the organization of LGB events in Israel. Israeli anti-discrimination laws protect LGB individuals. Acceptance and tolerance of LGB people vary throughout the country and from neighborhood to neighborhood. As of August 2014, the Law of Return allows that same-sex spouses of Jews immigrating to Israel – known as “making Aliyah” – are eligible to make Aliyah with their spouses and receive Israeli citizenship.

The legal systems in the West Bank and Gaza Strip are based on the 1960 Jordanian penal code which prohibits consensual same-sex sexual activity. However, the PA has not prosecuted individuals suspected of such activity. Societal discrimination, including from families, based on cultural and religious traditions is commonplace, making the West Bank and Gaza challenging environments for LGB persons. PA security officers have harassed, abused, and sometimes arrested LGB individuals because of their sexual orientation. NGOs have reported that Hamas also harassed and detained persons in Gaza due to their sexual orientation.

Seeour [LGB Travel Information page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/lgbtqi.html) and section 6 of the [Department of State's Human Rights report](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) for further details.

**Persons with Mobility Issues:** Individuals with mobility issues may find accessibility and accommodation in Israel very different from in the United States. Legislation mandates access to buildings and transportation, as well as accommodations for persons with disabilities in services and the workplace. However, the government enforces the laws with only limited success. Societal discrimination and lack of accessibility persist in employment and housing. The law mandates accessibility to urban public transportation but not to intercity buses. Most train stations maintain access for persons with disabilities; however, many buses still do not have such access. Television stations include subtitles or sign language, and the courts accommodate testimony from persons with intellectual disabilities or mental illness. Tourists will find restaurants, foot paths, and public transportation less accessible than in the United States.

PA law prohibits discrimination based on disability. The Palestinian Disability Law was ratified in 1999, but implementation has been slow. It does not mandate access to buildings, information, or communications. Palestinians with disabilities continue to receive uneven and poor-quality services and care. Familial and societal discrimination against persons with disabilities exists in both the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

**Students:** See our [Students Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/students.html) page and [FBI travel tips](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/IsraeltheWestBankandGaza.html#ExternalPopup).

**Women Travelers:** See our travel tips for [Women Travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/women-travelers.html).