# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety:** While in Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza, U.S. citizens may encounter road conditions that differ significantly from those in the United States. The information below is provided for general reference only and may not be totally accurate in a particular location or circumstance.

* ***Israel:***Israeli roads and highways tend to be crowded, especially in urban areas. The Government of Israel requires that all occupants of passenger cars always wear seat belts. Passenger cars must use headlights during all intercity travel, both day and night, and during winter. All drivers are required to carry fluorescent vests and safety triangles in the car with them at all times, and they are required to wear the vests whenever they get out of their cars to make repairs or change tires. If a vehicle is stopped for a traffic violation and it does not contain a fluorescent vest, the driver will be fined. These vests can be purchased for a nominal price in all local gas stations. While mobile phone use is prohibited while driving, hands-free units are authorized. The acceptable limit for blood alcohol content is lower in Israel than in the United States.

* ***West Bank and Gaza:*** Crowded roads are common in the West Bank. During periods of heightened tension in the West Bank, protestors have targeted cars and buses with stone throwing, improvised incendiary devices, small arms fire, barricades, and burning tires. Emergency services may be delayed by the need for Palestinian authorities to coordinate with Israeli officials. Seat belt use is required, and drivers may not drink alcohol. Individuals involved in accidents resulting in death or injury may be detained by police pending an investigation. The roads in Gaza have been severely degraded in areas where armed conflict between Israel and Hamas has taken place.

**Traffic Laws:** Aggressive driving is commonplace, and many drivers fail to maintain safe following distances or signal before changing lanes or making turns. Overtaking at high-speed on undivided two-lane roads is common and may result in accidents. Drivers are also prone to stop suddenly on roads without warning, especially in the right lane. Drivers should use caution, as Israel has a high rate of fatalities from automobile accidents.

Please refer to our Road Safety page for more information. We suggest that you visit the website of the country’s national [tourist](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.il%2Fen%2Fdepartments%2Fministry_of_tourism%2Fgovil-landing-page&data=05%7C01%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C6f806e3f127d45d020bd08db57d698d5%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638200351422389860%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=IdYMbOSX6tCCJuuoao4iQtiRD0oWbyqhFzv8vYqq5gI%3D&reserved=0) office and Israel's [Ministry of Transport and Road Safety](https://www.gov.il/en/departments/ministry_of_transport_and_road_safety/govil-landing-page) for additional information on road safety.   
   
**Aviation Safety Oversight:**The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has assessed that the Government of Israel’s Civil Aviation Authority is in compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) aviation safety standards for oversight of Israel’s air carrier operations. Further information may be found on the [FAA’s safety assessment page](https://www.faa.gov/about/initiatives/iasa)..