# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety:** Overland travel is difficult and roadside assistance is non-existent. The country’s size (larger than Texas and New Mexico combined) and harsh climate make road maintenance and repair especially problematic. Even small amounts of rain can make paved roads in Nouakchott impassable for cars without high clearance.

* U.S. citizens traveling overland for long distances in Mauritania should travel in convoys, and be sure to have suitable four-wheel drive vehicles, a local guide, an adequate supply of water and food, and a second fuel reservoir. Multiple vehicles are recommended in case of breakdown. A Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver and satellite phone are essential when traveling in remote areas. Visitors are urged not to travel alone into the desert or after dark when outside of major urban areas.
* The telecommunications infrastructure, including cellular telephone coverage, is limited. For those traveling outside the major urban areas, it is recommended to have a satellite telephone readily available.
* **Traffic Laws**: Driving in Mauritania can be treacherous, and we encourage travelers to hire a trained local driver. Many Mauritanians drive without regard to traffic signs or rules. Roadway obstructions and hazards caused by drifting sand, animals, and poor roads often plague motorists. These hazards, when combined with the number of untrained drivers and poorly maintained vehicles may contribute to a higher risk of automobile accidents. Drivers should be extremely vigilant, and all vehicle occupants should always wear their seat belts. Motorcycle and bicycle riders should wear helmets and protective clothing. Nighttime driving should be avoided. Travel at night between cities in Mauritania is prohibited for U.S. Embassy staff and all driving outside of the capital of Nouakchott requires a minimum two vehicle convoy.
* **Public Transportation:** Taxis and public transportation are not considered to be secure forms of transportation for foreign visitors to Mauritania, and U.S. Embassy personnel are directed not to use them.
* For more information, please visit our [Road Safety](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/driving-and-road-safety.html) page.
* **Safety Oversight:**The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has not assessed Mauritania]’s Civil Aviation Authority for compliance with international standards for aviation safety oversight. FAA’s website includes more information on its assessment program.