## Entry requirements

### **Visa/Passport**

In general, Irish tourists visiting Malaysia for less than 3 months do not require a visa. Malaysian immigration requires international visitors (with the exception of children under 12) to provide fingerprints before entering Malaysia. For full entry requirements for Malaysia, please contact the nearest Malaysian Embassy or Consulate.

You must also pass through Malaysian Immigration upon exiting the country. Travellers registering to use the Malaysia Digital Arrival Card will receive an email acknowledgment containing a link and a pin number to view their visit pass online after they pass through the auto e-gate. Travellers who use the auto e-gate to enter Malaysia are advised to take and keep a screenshot of their visit pass on their phone and present this visit pass if requested by Malaysian authorities. We advise you to ensure immigration officials stamp your passport with the correct date upon entering and exiting Malaysia when not using e-gates. Failing to show proof of entry into Malaysia can result in fines and/or detention. If you overstay your Malaysian visa for even a few days, you can be fined, detained, deported and/or blacklisted by the Malaysian Immigration Authorities. Ensure that you abide by the terms and conditions of your entry pass for Malaysia at all times.

If you’re travelling between Peninsular Malaysia and East Malaysia (sometimes known as Malaysian Borneo and made up of the states of Sabah and Sarawak), you must carry your passport. You will pass through immigration control and must get entry and exit stamps.

If you get a new Irish passport, you will need to go to the nearest Malaysian Immigration office to get your visa/pass put into the new passport. This also applies for emergency travel documents: for example, if you lose your Irish passport and if you are leaving the country, you will still need to go to an Immigration Office to get a Special/Exit Pass for the emergency travel document before you can depart the country. For more information on your nearest Immigration office, consult the website of Malaysian Immigration**:** [**www.imi.gov.my**](http://www.imi.gov.my/)