# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:** U.S. citizens in Afghanistan are subject to Afghan laws. A U.S. passport will not help you avoid detention or prosecution and may result in heightened attention by police and prosecutors, some of whom may seek to exploit your status as a U.S. citizen for financial or political gain. Persons violating Afghan laws, even unknowingly, may be fined, detained, imprisoned, or possibly executed. Penalties in Afghanistan can be more severe than for similar offenses in the United States. U.S. citizens may face the death penalty for crimes that would not be punishable by death in the United States.

* Photography of buildings/installations housing ministries, public sector institutions, and security forces, including equipment or troops, may lead to detention.
* Possession of alcohol is illegal and is equated to narcotics. Penalties for possessing, using, or trafficking in alcohol or illegal drugs are severe, with offenders often facing long jail sentences and heavy fines.
* Sexual relations between unmarried couples, or unreported knowledge of such relations is punishable by lengthy prison sentences and/or public flogging in Afghanistan.

Certain acts of U.S. citizens overseas are prosecutable as crimes in the United States, whether or not they are illegal under the local law. Withholding someone's identity documents, such as passports, green cards, or tazkeras, knowing that they are necessary for travel, can lead to criminal prosecution in the United States. For additional examples, see our page on [crimes against minors abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention/crimes-against-minors.html) and visit the website of the [U.S. Department of Justice](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/Kazakhstan.html#ExternalPopup).

**Religion and Islam:** Islam, along with tribal law and customs (e.g., *pashtunwali* in predominately Pashtun areas), provides a foundation for Afghans’ lived experiences. The influence of tribal law and customs are greater in Afghanistan’s rural sector, compared to urban areas. Foreign visitors are expected to remain sensitive to Afghanistan’s Islamic and local cultures, and not dress in revealing or provocative manners, including the wearing of sleeveless shirts and blouses, halter-tops, and/or shorts.

Proselytizing may be deemed an insult to Islam, and could result in severe punishments including – but not limited to – incarceration, and the death penalty. Committing a blasphemous act or producing or distributing material deemed critical of Islam is punishable by life imprisonment or the death penalty. Apostasy may carry a maximum penalty of death for Muslims who denounce Islam or convert to another religion. Allegations of conversion of Afghan citizens are taken particularly seriously. Accusations of blasphemy or insulting Islam, even when unproven, have led to deadly mob violence.

**Counterfeit and Pirated Goods:** Although counterfeit and pirated goods are prevalent in many countries, they may still be illegal according to local laws. You may also have to pay fines and/or give them up if you bring them back to the United States. See the [U.S. Department of Justice’s website](https://www.justice.gov/criminal/criminal-ccips) for more information.

**Faith-Based Travelers:** See the following webpages for details:

* [Faith-Based Travel Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/faith-based-travel.html)
* [International Religious Freedom Report](https://www.state.gov/international-religious-freedom-reports/) – see country reports
* [Human Rights Report](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) – see country reports
* [Hajj Fact Sheet for Travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/hajj-umrah.html)
* [Best Practices for Volunteering Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/volunteering-abroad.html)

**Financial Debts:** U.S. citizens in Afghanistan have been detained in cases involving financial debts and contract disputes, as these disputes are generally considered criminal matters in Afghanistan. Hiring a local attorney in the early stages of such a dispute is recommended.

**Women Travelers:** Afghanistan is a traditional country, particularly when it comes to roles and behavior. To help maintain a low profile, women should ensure their shirts cover their full arms, collarbone, and waistband, and their pants/skirts cover their ankles, especially when traveling outside Kabul. Almost all women in Afghanistan cover their hair in public; female travelers are advised to carry scarves for this purpose. Women are expected to be escorted by a male relative and can be detained for traveling alone. Women visiting Afghanistan should be alert of the risk of sexual assault and are recommended to review the Department of State’s travel tips for [women travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/women-travelers.html).

**LGB Travelers:** The Taliban consider consensual same-sex sexual activity to be a criminal offense, and representatives routinely enforced this position through violence, intimidation, harassment, and targeted killings. Conviction for same-sex sexual conduct is punishable by death, flogging, or imprisonment. Individual Taliban members made public statements reiterating that their interpretation of sharia includes the death penalty for homosexuality. LGB individuals face discrimination, violence, and persecution in Afghan society. See our [LGB Travel Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/lgbtqi.html) page and section 6 of our [Human Rights report](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) for further details.

**Forced Marriage:** The Department is aware of cases involving U.S. citizen women of Afghan heritage who have been convinced by their families to travel to Afghanistan, usually under the guise of visiting relatives, only to find themselves forced into marriage. The U.S. government considers forced marriage to be a human rights abuse and, in the case of minors, a form of child abuse. Forced marriage is defined as one in which one or both parties have not consented to the marriage (or are incapable of providing meaningful consent) and differs from arranged marriage. Often, victims of forced marriage are subjected to non-consensual sex, physical and emotional abuse, and isolation. Individuals who refuse a forced marriage may be threatened with violence or with being disowned by their families, who also often confiscate their belongings (including passports).

**Travelers Who Require Accessibility Assistance:** Afghan law protects the rights of persons with disabilities, but the provisions are not implemented in practice. Persons with disabilities face limited access to transportation, public buildings, and hotels, and few communication accommodations. There are few sidewalks and no curb-cuts, and most buildings lack elevators.

**Banking:** Access to banking facilities in Afghanistan is limited and unreliable. The economy generally operates on a cash-only basis, though the use of credit cards is becoming more common in larger cities. ATMs are available in major cities, but U.S. banks often deny transactions from Afghanistan unless a traveler provides advanced notice of the transaction.

**Customs:** Afghan customs authorities generally enforce strict regulations on the import/export of certain goods such as alcoholic beverages, religious materials, antiquities, medication, precious stones and metals, and printed materials. U.S. citizen travelers have faced fines and/or confiscation of items considered antiquities upon exiting Afghanistan.

**Weapons/Firearms:** U.S. citizens, including security contractors and military personnel, should carefully review Afghan import/export restrictions on weapons, firearms, and ammunition, including antique or display models. It is also important to review the regulations of any country through which you may transit, as many countries have strict rules prohibiting these items, even in checked luggage. Consult the [U.S. Customs and Border Protection](https://www.cbp.gov/travel/us-citizens/know-before-you-go/prohibited-and-restricted-items) for information on traveling with such items into or out of the United States.