# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:**You are subject to local laws. If you violate Nicaraguan law, even unknowingly, you may be fined, expelled, arrested, or imprisoned. There are severe penalties, including imprisonment, for domestic violence, psychological abuse, and non-payment of child support. Furthermore, some crimes are also prosecutable in the United States, regardless of local law. For examples, see our website on [crimes against minors abroad](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2Femergencies%2Farrest-detention%2Fcrimes-against-minors.html%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600) and the [Department of Justice](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.justice.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcriminal%2Fcriminal-ceos%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600) website.

**Arrest Notification:**Nicaraguan authorities do not always notify the U.S. Embassy when a U.S. citizen has been arrested or detained. This is especially true if the arrestee has dual nationality. If you are arrested or detained, ask both police and prison officials and friends and family to notify the U.S. Embassy. After the U.S. Embassy learns of an arrest, it may be several days or weeks before the Government of Nicaragua permits a consular official to visit. In the case of dual U.S.-Nicaraguan nationals, the U.S. Embassy may be denied consular access. See our [webpage](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2FInternational-Travel-Country-Information-Pages%2FNicaragua.html%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600) for further information.

* Arrested U.S. citizens may find themselves subject to prolonged detention without charges, often for political reasons.
* Nicaraguan authorities have ignored or significantly delayed implementing judicial orders to release, deport, expel, or transfer prisoners, due to political reasons.
* Prison conditions can be harsh and life-threatening.
* **The Department has determined there is a risk of wrongful detention of U.S. nationals by the Government of Nicaragua.**

**Drug and Alcohol Enforcement:**Penalties for possessing, using, or trafficking in illegal drugs in Nicaragua are severe. This includes charges for possession of small amounts of illegal drugs. Even with a prescription, marijuana is illegal in Nicaragua.

**Purchasing Property:**Be extremely cautious of investing in and/or buying property. Property rights and enforcement are notoriously unreliable in Nicaragua. The Nicaraguan Government has confiscated privately owned land or residences without warning. They do so without due process or compensation. Armed individuals have taken over privately-owned land. The Nicaraguan authorities may decline to evict those who illegally take possession of private property. U.S. citizens have been arrested or threatened over property disputes. See [our website](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fni.usembassy.gov.mcas.ms%2Fbuying-property-and-property-disputes-in-nicaragua%2F%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600) for more information.

**Customs Regulations:**U.S. citizens planning to import items should contract a recognized local customs broker for assistance well in advance of their visit. The U.S. Embassy is unable to assist with the customs or import process.

* Photography equipment, videography equipment, and binoculars may be subject to seizure by the Nicaraguan customs authorities. Note: As of April 16, 2024, people seeking to monitor flora and fauna, including sample collection, scientific studies, or simple observation (such as birdwatching) must seek approval from the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA). Failure to do this could result in fines, criminal penalties, and arrest/deportation.
* Nicaraguan customs officials may delay or block import of goods, including items intended for donations.
* U.S. citizens have reported being fined or required to pay unpublished and costly duties/taxes when importing goods.
* If you are planning to bring vehicles or household goods, consult Nicaraguan customs officials ([dga.gob.ni)](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fdga.gob.ni.mcas.ms%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600) prior to shipment.
* When entering with your vehicle, you must have the original registration and title.
* Approval from the [Ministry of Health’s](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.minsa.gob.ni.mcas.ms%2F%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600) Pharmacy Department is required to import large quantities of medicine. This includes for charitable purposes.
* Before excavating archaeological materials or buying historical artifacts, you must consult with the [National Patrimony Directorate of the Nicaraguan Institute of Culture](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.inc.gob.ni.mcas.ms%2Fpatrimonio-cultural%2F%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600). Otherwise, severe criminal penalties may apply.

**Faith-Based Travelers:**See the following webpages for details:

* [Faith-Based Travel Information](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2Fbefore-you-go%2Ftravelers-with-special-considerations%2Ffaith-based-travel.html%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600)
* [International Religious Freedom Report](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Finternational-religious-freedom-reports%2F%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600)
* [Human Rights Report](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Freports%2F2022-country-reports-on-human-rights-practices%2F%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600)
* [Hajj Fact Sheet for Travelers](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2Fbefore-you-go%2Ftravelers-with-special-considerations%2Fhajj-umrah.html%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600)
* [Best Practices for Volunteering Abroad](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2Fbefore-you-go%2Ftravelers-with-special-considerations%2Fhajj-umrah.html%2522HYPERLINK%2520%2522https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2Fbefore-you-go%2Ftravelers-with-special-considerations%2Fvolunteering-abroad.html%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600)

**LGB Travelers:**  There are no legal restrictions on same-sex relations or the organization of LGB events in Nicaragua. While violence against LGB travelers is uncommon, widespread discrimination exists. Seeour [LGB Travel Information](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2Fbefore-you-go%2Ftravelers-with-special-considerations%2Flgbti.html%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600) page and the [Department of State’s Human Rights report for further details](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Freports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor%2Fcountry-reports-on-human-rights-practices%2F%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600).

**Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs):** The Government of Nicaragua has closed more than 5,300 NGOs, including religious and charitable organizations, since 2018. Employees and volunteers of NGOs and volunteers supporting NGOs may be denied entry to Nicaragua. Those in Nicaragua may be subject to investigation or expulsion. Nicaraguan Authorities have threatened U.S. citizens engaged in religious or charitable activities with arrest and opened questionable criminal investigations. Please see “Advanced Coordination Required for Volunteer Groups” above.

**Political and Religious Activity**:  Participating in unauthorized political or religious activities, including public protests, sending electronic messages, or publishing social media critical of the government may result in detention and expulsion. It may also result in restrictions on future travel to Nicaragua.The Nicaraguan government has canceled large-scale religious events on short notice and has threatened organizers of these events with arrest. This has happened even after having originally permitted the activity to take place.

**Social Media:**Social media accounts may be monitored by the Government of Nicaragua. Nicaraguan authorities may deny entry to, investigate, or expel people whose social media accounts contain content they deem critical of the government, controversial, or that might involve illegal activity.

**Sending Mail and/or Money to/from Nicaragua:**You should expect that all your mail will be opened, reviewed, and catalogued by Nicaraguan authorities. Nicaraguan Customs authorities routinely intercept, review, and retain checks, money, and debit/credit cards shipped to Nicaragua through international couriers.

**Travelers Who Require Accessibility Assistance:**There is limited or no accessibility assistance for public transportation and in many public areas. There are few sidewalks and pedestrian road crossings. Nicaraguan law prohibits discrimination against persons with physical and mental disabilities. However, such discrimination is widespread in employment, education, access to health care, and the provision of state services.

**Students:** See our [Students Abroad](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2Fbefore-you-go%2Ftravelers-with-special-considerations%2Fstudents.html%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600) page.

**Women Travelers:**See our travel tips for [Women Travelers](https://mcas-proxyweb.mcas.ms/certificate-checker?login=false&originalUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftravel.state.gov.mcas.ms%2Fcontent%2Ftravel%2Fen%2Finternational-travel%2Fbefore-you-go%2Ftravelers-with-special-considerations%2Fwomen-travelers.html%3FMcasTsid%3D20892&McasCSRF=c0faf6210156a766d6d56a468090eadbf7ff14e9134b92c8bb1ab41cbd1c7567&McasTsid=15600).