# Travel and Transportation

[#### Travel and Transportation](javascript:void(0); "Travel and Transportation")

**Road Conditions and Safety:** Most roads do not have sidewalks, forcing pedestrians and livestock to use the roadways both day and night. Secondary roads are poorly lit, in disrepair, and may be impassable to all but four-wheel drive vehicles during the November-April rainy season. Motor vehicle accidents are the most common cause of death among travelers to Malawi. Safety hazards include the lack of road shoulders, potholes, pedestrians, bicyclists, and livestock. You should drive defensively and avoid road travel outside cities at night. Road support networks for stranded drivers do not exist. Fuel supply, both diesel and gasoline, is often erratic and travelers should plan accordingly. We do not recommend travel by foot along roadways.

**Traffic Laws**: Police roadblocks are common but properly documented drivers usually pass quickly and without incident. Malawian police operate radar-based speed traps throughout the country and you are expected to pay fines on the spot—please ensure you get a receipt. You must obtain a locally issued driver's license if you remain in Malawi for an extended period and plan to drive. Never drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs. You should always wear a seat belt whenever available and insist drivers maintain a safe speed.

**Aviation Safety Oversight:**As there is no direct commercial air service to the United States by carriers registered in Malawi, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has not assessed the government of Malawi’s Civil Aviation Authority for compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) aviation safety standards. Further information may be found on the[FAA’s safety assessment page](https://www.faa.gov/about/initiatives/iasa).

**Port Security:**The Commandant of the Coast Guard has determined that effective anti-terrorism measures are not in place in Sao Tome and Principe ports and has imposed conditions of entry on vessels that arrive in U.S. ports having visited ports in Sao Tome Principe. Mariners and passengers on commercial vessels traveling through the ports of Sao Tome and Principe should exercise increased caution.