# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:**You are subject to local laws. You may face arrest, imprisonment, and/or deportation if you violate local laws, even unknowingly.

Furthermore, some activities are crimes under U.S. law and can be prosecuted in the U.S. regardless of whether they are allowed under local law. For examples, see our website on [crimes against minors abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention/crimes-against-minors.html) and the [Department of Justice website.](https://www.justice.gov/)

If police or prison officials arrest or detain you, immediately ask them to notify the U.S. Embassy. See our [webpage](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention.html) for further information.

**Alcohol:** Each of India’s states has its own rules for buying and drinking alcohol. Legal drinking ages range from 18 to 25 and can vary by beverage type. Some states permit alcohol use for medicinal purposes only while others require you to hold a permit to buy, transport, or consume alcohol. Penalties for violation can be harsh.

Several U.S. citizens at Indian airports have been arrested for attempting to smuggle illegal drugs from India. Many claim that they did not realize they were carrying narcotics. Never transport or mail packages that do not belong to you and maintain direct control of your luggage at all times.

**Beef and Cow Hide:** Several states in India impose various types of prohibition on beef. In some rural areas, cow protection vigilantes have attacked people they suspected of selling or consuming beef, or possessing items made with cow hide.

**SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES:**

**Dual Nationality:** India does not permit its citizens to hold dual nationality. In 2006, India launched the "Overseas Citizens of India" (OCI) program, which does not grant Indian citizenship but is similar to a U.S. "green card" in that you can travel to and from India indefinitely, work in India, study in India, and own property in India (except for certain agricultural and plantation properties). If you are a U.S. citizen and obtain an OCI card you will not become a citizen of India; you will remain a citizen of the United States. An OCI card holder does not receive an Indian passport, cannot vote in Indian elections, and is not eligible for Indian government employment.

U.S. citizens of Indian descent can apply for OCI cards at the Indian Embassy in Washington or at the Indian Consulates in Chicago, New York, San Francisco, Atlanta, and Houston. Inside India, U.S. citizens can apply at the nearest FRRO office (please see “Entry/Exit Requirements” section above for more information on the FRRO). U.S. citizens must use a U.S. passport when traveling in and out of the United States.

Faith-based travelers and those participating in religious activities should refer to the Department of State's Report on International Religious Freedom. Indian law mandates that individuals engaging in religious proselytizing obtain a "missionary" visa. Immigration authorities have determined that engaging in certain activities, such as speaking at religious meetings open to the general public, could violate immigration law if the traveler does not possess a missionary visa. Foreigners with tourist visas who engage in missionary activity are subject to deportation and possible criminal prosecution. The states of Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Arunachal Pradesh have legislation that regulates or places restrictions on conversion from one religion to another. If you plan to engage in missionary activity, you may want to seek legal advice to find out if Indian law permits the activities you plan to pursue.

Tourists should also mind restrictions and observances when planning to visit any religious establishment. These include Hindu temples, mosques, churches, and other sacred places to the local population. Many individual temples and mosques do not permit non-members to enter all or parts of the facilities, and may require the removal of shoes, the covering of the head, or have other specific requirements for appropriate attire.

Customs rules are strict. Before traveling to or from India, inspect all bags and clothes well. Make sure they do not contain banned items. Airport security officials have arrested or detained several U.S. citizens after discovering loose ammunition (including spent individual bullets and casings) or weapons in their luggage. If authorities find loose ammunition or bullets (including empty bullet shells used in souvenirs) on your person or in your bags, they will charge you with violating the Indian Arms Act, and may incarcerate or deport you from India.

**Having a satellite phone or Global Positioning System (GPS) device in India is [illegal](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.indiacode.nic.in%2Fbitstream%2F123456789%2F20101%2F1%2FA2023-44.pdf&data=05%7C02%7COCSContentManager%40state.gov%7C1a8fc1b2949a45ff7e7108dd4c791be2%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638750805225866888%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=lNMaItk1A7otSFMlQFPwSqkM2GI7qpxtB%2FFDbWQE%2BVI%3D&reserved=0 "Original URL: https://www.indiacode.nic.in/bitstream/123456789/20101/1/A2023-44.pdf. Click or tap if you trust this link.") and can result in fines, detention, or arrest. Penalties can be as high as $200,000 and lead to up to three years in jail**

Indian customs authorities enforce strict regulations. They cover temporary importation into or export from India of items like antiquities, electronics, currency, ivory, gold objects, and other banned materials. You need permission from the Government of India to bring in restricted items, even if you are only transiting through India. If you do not comply with these regulations, you risk arrest or fine or both and confiscation of these items. If Indian law enforcement charges you with any legal violations, make sure to have an attorney review any document before signing it. The Government of India requires the registration of antique items with the local police along with a photograph of the item. It is advisable to contact the Embassy of India in Washington or one of India's consulates in the United States for specific information regarding customs requirements. More information is available from the [Indian Central Board of Excise and Customs.](https://www.cbic.gov.in/entities/internationalTravellers%22%20HYPERLINK%20%22http:)

Indian customs authorities encourage the use of an ATA (Admission Temporaire/Temporary Admission) Carnet for the temporary admission of professional equipment, commercial samples, and/or goods for exhibitions and fair purposes. ATA Carnet Headquarters, located at the [U.S. Council for International Business](http://www.uscib.org/), 1212 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036, issues and guarantees the ATA Carnet in the United States. For additional information call (212) 354-4480, or [email USCIB](mailto:atacarnet@uscib.org) for details. Please see our section on [Customs Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/customs-and-import.html) for more information.

**Natural Disaster Threats:** Parts of northern India are highly susceptible to earthquakes. Regions of highest risk, ranked 5 on a scale of 1 to 5, include areas around Srinagar, Himachal Pradesh, Rishikesh and Dehradun, the northern parts of Punjab, northwest Gujarat, northern Bihar, and the entire northeast. Ranked 4 (high damage risk) is an area that sweeps along the north through Jammu and Kashmir, Eastern Punjab, Haryana, Northern Uttar Pradesh, central Bihar and the northern parts of West Bengal. New Delhi is located in zone 4. Severe flooding is common in hilly and mountainous areas throughout India. Flooding in 2013 in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and other areas left thousands of people presumed dead and temporarily stranded dozens of U.S. citizens.

Typhoons/cyclones and subsequent flooding are common along the Indian coasts, in particular the Eastern coastal states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal, and have at times resulted in massive loss of life. Tourists and residents in areas prone to these events should remain vigilant during severe weather, monitor local media for latest developments, and heed all municipal warnings. Residents in these areas should have contingency plans for loss of power and unavailability of goods and services, including supplies for multiple days after a severe weather event.

**Accessibility:** Individuals with disabilities may find accessibility and accommodation in India very different than what you find in the United States. Despite legislation that all public buildings and transport be accessible for disabled people, accessibility remains limited. One notable exception is the Delhi metro system, designed to be accessible to those with physical disabilities.

**Students:** See our [Students Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/students.html) page and [FBI travel tips.](https://www.fbi.gov/file-repository/student-travel-brochure-pdf.pdf)

**LGB Travelers: The Supreme Court of India decriminalized same-sex relationships in 2018. Since then, state and union governments have been directed to develop reforms that protect the rights of LGB persons.**

Although Indian law prohibits discrimination by state and nonstate actors based on sexual orientation, the government is inconsistent in implementing and enforcing these laws, and reports of widespread discrimination, harassment, threats, and violence against LGB persons, particularly in rural areas or by local police, persist.

See our LGB Travel Information page and section 6 of our [Human Rights](https://www.state.gov/reports/2022-country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/)report for further details.