# Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements

[#### Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements](javascript:void(0); "Entry, Exit and Visa Requirements")

Requirements for Entry:

* Passport
  + Passports must have at least six months of validity remaining beyond your planned date of departure. At least three completely blank pages are required for entry. If you are traveling with minor children to Namibia, be aware that additional documentation is required.
* Visa
  + **Tourists visiting Namibia for fewer than 90 days per calendar year are not required to obtain a visa in advance of their arrival. All other visa types (e.g., student, work, volunteer, etc.) must be obtained from the nearest [Namibian embassy or consulate](https://namibiaembassyusa.org/foreign-nationals/) before travel. Visit the Namibian Embassy’s website for the most current visa information.**
  + Upon arrival, check your admission stamp before leaving the immigration counter to ensure that the stamp is valid for the length of your intended stay (up to 90 days) or transit through Namibia and that immigration officials have given you a correctly dated entry stamp, as this stamp will be checked upon departure. Overstaying the time granted or having an incorrect or missing entry stamp can result in detention, arrest, and fines.
* Travelers to Namibia are not required to produce a negative SARS-CoV-2 PCR test result or proof of vaccination.
* World Health Organization (WHO) card with yellow fever vaccination if traveling from a [yellow fever endemic country.](https://www.cdc.gov/yellowfever/maps/africa.html) Check the[CDC Yellow Book](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/Namibia.html#ExternalPopup) for further information.
* For international travelers with a medical contraindication to the yellow fever vaccine, it is up to the discretion of the clinician to provide them with a medical waiver. Your clinician should complete and sign the “Medical Contraindications to Vaccination” section of the [International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis](https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/icvp) (ICVP) or “yellow card.” Yellow fever vaccine providers should validate medical exemptions to yellow fever vaccine using the Uniform Stamp of the yellow fever vaccination center. Clinicians should also provide the traveler with a signed and dated exemption letter on letterhead stationery, clearly stating the contraindications to vaccination (e.g., age, diagnosis of an immunocompromising condition, allergic reaction). The exemption letter should an imprint of the Uniform Stamp used by the yellow fever vaccination center to validate the ICVP. **Note:** Reasons other than medical contraindications are not acceptable for exemption from Yellow Fever vaccination.

**Parents traveling to Namibia with minor children** should be prepared to produce unabridged birth certificates for their children demonstrating their parental relationship. Birth certificates should be original or certified copies of the original. When one parent is traveling alone with a child, he or she should present the unabridged birth certificate, plus a notarized consent from the other parent listed on the birth certificate authorizing him or her to enter/depart from Namibia with the child. Alternatively, the parent could also present a court order granting him or her full legal custody of the child, or the death certificate of the other parent named on the birth certificate.

The U.S. Department of State is unaware of any HIV/AIDS entry restrictions for visitors to, or foreign residents of Namibia. Find information on [dual nationality](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/Dual-Nationality-Travelers.html), [prevention of international child abduction](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/International-Parental-Child-Abduction.html), and [customs regulations](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/customs-and-import.html) on our websites.