# Local Laws & Special Circumstances

[#### Local Laws & Special Circumstances](javascript:void(0); "Local Laws & Special Circumstances")

**Criminal Penalties:** You are subject to local laws. If you violate local laws, even unknowingly, you may be expelled, arrested, or imprisoned. Individuals establishing a business or practicing a profession that requires additional permits or licensing should seek information from the competent local authorities, prior to practicing or operating a business.

The Jordanian constitution provides for freedom of speech and of the press with some restrictions. Insulting the King or members of the Royal Family may lead to detainment or imprisonment. Additionally, the Jordanian government considers proselytizing to Muslims (including the distribution of religious material) illegal, and anyone undertaking these activities is subject to prosecution, imprisonment, and deportation. Please see the information below on Islam as the state religion of Jordan.

Jordanian courts may impose criminal penalties, including imprisonment, for alleged infractions that in the United States would be resolved in civil courts. The U.S. Embassy is aware of several cases involving business or financial disputes that resulted in lengthy pre-trial detention and imprisonment under local financial crimes laws.

It is illegal to use, possess and/or distribute drugs, including marijuana and its derivatives, in Jordan. Jordan has strict drug laws and enforces them readily. Drug possession/use is one of the five main offenses that falls under the umbrella of the state security court and is subject to a different set of criminal procedures than other offenses. Accused offenders can be detained for up to two weeks without charges. In addition, after being referred to the state security public prosecutor, the accused offender can be detained for an additional 15 days renewable for further investigation, as long as the extension does not exceed a total of two months. This delay can result in the Embassy not being notified about the detainment because an official arrest has not taken place.

Furthermore, some laws are also prosecutable in the United States, regardless of local law. For examples, see our website on [crimes against minors abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention/crimes-against-minors.html) and the [Department of Justice](http://www.justice.gov/usam/criminal-resource-manual-1617-extraterritorial-criminal-jurisdiction-18-usc-112-878-970-1116) website.

**Arrest Notification:** If you are a U.S citizen and are arrested or detained, ask police or prison officials to notify the U.S. Embassy immediately. See our [webpage](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/emergencies/arrest-detention.html) for further information.

**Family Circumstances:** The U.S. Embassy is aware of cases where U.S. citizens have been subject to domestic violence and abandonment by their spouses, including incidents of restrictions of movement through travel holds, loss of custody of children or forced marriage. Women and children should pay particular attention to any warning signs, including husbands or other family members withholding money or travel documents after arrival in Jordan. Cases of domestic violence should be reported to the Family Protection Department. Travelers should also be aware that U.S. laws cannot protect U.S. citizens when they are outside of the United States.

**Travel Holds:**Under Jordanian law, any adult male may prevent his minor children from leaving Jordan by simply registering a hold on their travel with the Jordanian authorities. Adults may place travel holds on their spouses pursuant to a court order from a Jordanian court. Adult male relatives (uncles, brothers, grandfathers) may also petition Jordanian courts for a travel hold on their unmarried adult female relatives. Immigration officials may prevent minor children traveling with their mothers from departing Jordan without the father’s affirmative consent. This is possible even if the child or woman holds only U.S. nationality. Jordanian authorities consider disputes surrounding travel holds as private family matters, and the Embassy is extremely limited in its ability to intervene. Travel holds may only be removed by the person who placed them or by a court. Please see [Jordan’s International Parental Child Abduction (IPCA) page](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/International-Parental-Child-Abduction/International-Parental-Child-Abduction-Country-Information/Jordan.html) for further information.

**Male Military Requirement:** U.S. citizen males who also hold Jordanian citizenship may be subject to laws that impose military service obligations on Jordanians. Jordanian men under age 40 are required to register for service in the Jordanian military. Those subject to registration may be prevented from leaving Jordan until exit permission is obtained from appropriate Jordanian authorities. This permission is often granted to U.S. citizens, but may take some time to obtain and may be limited to a single exit.

**Dual Citizenship:**The Government of Jordan considers U.S.-Jordanian dual nationals to be Jordanian citizens. Local authorities typically do not notify the U.S. Embassy of arrests, detentions, or accidents involving dual nationals. For this reason, dual nationals in particular should carry copies of their U.S. passports with them at all times so that evidence of their identity and U.S. citizenship is readily available for local authorities.

For additional information, see our information on [Dual Nationality](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/Dual-Nationality-Travelers.html).

**Customs:** Jordanian customs authorities may enforce strict regulations concerning temporary importation into or export from Jordan of items such as drugs, firearms, poisons, chemicals, explosives, pornographic materials, communications equipment, drones and antiquities, among other items. You should contact the [Embassy of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan](http://www.jordanembassyus.org/) in Washington, D.C., or one of the Jordanian consulates in the United States, if you seek specific information regarding customs requirements.

Please also refer to our [Customs Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/customs-and-import.html) page for additional information.

**Unmanned Aerial Systems (Drones):**Tourists’ use of smaller drones is becoming increasingly popular. However, drones are illegal for personal use in Jordan, and persons seeking to bring any drone into Jordan must first obtain pre-authorization and approval from authorities before entry and use.

**Faith-Based Travelers:** See the following webpages for details:

* [Faith-Based Travel Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/faith-based-travel.html)
* [International Religious Freedom Report](https://www.state.gov/international-religious-freedom-reports/) – see country reports
* [Human Rights Report](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) – see country reports
* [Hajj Fact Sheet for Travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/hajj-umrah.html)
* [Best Practices for Volunteering Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/volunteering-abroad.html)

Islam is the state religion of Jordan. The Jordanian government generally does not interfere in religious practices. Some religious groups, however, cannot obtain legal recognition of their denominations. On official documents such as birth and wedding certificates, the Government of Jordan only allows affiliation with legally recognized faiths: Islam, certain Christian denominations, and Judaism. Not listing an affiliated faith or listing a faith outside those recognized by the government is generally not permitted. Activities such as proselytizing or encouraging conversion to any faith other than Islam are prohibited. U.S. citizens have been detained, arrested, denied re-entry and/or deported for discussing or trying to engage Jordanians in discussions about religion, even if such discussions also involve other activities, such as humanitarian aid. Jordanian officials may not warn individuals before a detention, arrest, denial of entry or deportation; any warnings received should be taken extremely seriously.

**LGB Travelers:** There are no legal restrictions on same-sex sexual relations or the organization of LGB events in Jordan. However, laws against adultery or breaches of modesty may be used against LGB travelers. Public displays of affection between individuals in general, and especially of the same sex are not considered culturally acceptable. Foreigners exhibiting such behavior or expressing themselves outside of traditional M/F norms in terms of dress or appearance may face greater risk of official and societal harassment and/or be targets of violence. Gay and lesbian Jordanians frequently hide their sexuality, even from family members. Family members who discover that a relative is LGB may target them for “honor” crimes.

Seeour [LGB Travel Information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/lgbti.html "LGB Travel Information")page and section 6 of our [Human Rights report](https://www.state.gov/reports-bureau-of-democracy-human-rights-and-labor/country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/) for further details.

**Travelers Who Require Accessibility Assistance***.* While in Jordan, individuals with disabilities may find accessibility and accommodation very different from what is found in the United States*.*Outside of a few upscale hotels in the capital, individuals with disabilities will find almost no accessible accommodations. Similarly, there are very few accessible restaurants, shops, or historical sites. Transportation is not accessible and sidewalks and crosswalks, even in the main cities, are not accessible. Handicap-accessible toilets and bathrooms, even in major hospitals, are generally not available. However, at least one local NGO ([accessiblejordan.com](https://accessiblejordan.com/)) has created a website which reports accessibility of tourist sites and other locations in Jordan. Travelers who rely on special accessibility requirements or assistance are encouraged to research on-line before planning travel to Jordan.

**Students:** See our [Students Abroad](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/students.html) page and [FBI travel tips](https://ucr.fbi.gov/investigate/counterintelligence/student-brochure).

**Women Travelers:** Women visiting and residing in Jordan have reported incidents of sexual harassment, stalking, indecent exposure, and assault. The Embassy continues to receive sporadic reports regarding incidents of harassment and sexual assaults involving taxis and taxi drivers. Some have included physical assaults. To reduce the likelihood of being victimized, women should take precautions such as avoiding travel to unfamiliar areas at night, traveling alone, and riding in the front seat of a taxi. Additionally, dress modestly when in public. Carrying a cell phone at all times is recommended. Immediately report any incidents to the Family Protection Department by calling 911. See our travel tips for [Women Travelers](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/before-you-go/travelers-with-special-considerations/women-travelers.html).